Nike ‘regrets’ Karim Benzema talks after cancelling shoot at last minute over striker’s past

2026-09-24

Por Desconocido

https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7625409/2026/09/24/karim-benzema-nike-shoot/?unlocked_article_code=1.DlE.qj7i.PBNEuL5pgZCF&source=whatsappwc

Nike cancelled a scheduled filming session for a campaign advert featuring the former Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema on Wednesday night after the sportswear company decided the footballer did not align with the brand’s values.

The filming had been scheduled to take place in London on Thursday. Sources briefed on the Nike deal, speaking anonymously as they were not authorized to do so publicly on the matter, said that the company had dug deeper into Benzema’s history and concluded that the player’s publicized past would not align with the brand’s values. Those sources declined to provide further details on the specifics of Benzema’s past which contributed to Nike’s decision.

In a statement to

The Athletic

, Nike said: “This project does not reflect a wider relationship between the athlete and Nike. We regret that conversations got this far.”

Benzema, 38, has previously been convicted of complicity in blackmail in a sex-tape scandal that overshadowed his career with the French national team, missing five years of representing his country as the case continued. A Versailles court

gave Benzema a one-year suspended jail sentence and a €75,000 fine in 2021

. This convicted him of “complicity” in an attempt to blackmail France teammate Mathieu Valbuena in 2015. Benzema’s legal team initially said they would appeal but the appeal was abandoned in 2022. His lawyer Hugues Vigier told

the Associated Press

in June 2022 that Benzema continued to deny wrongdoing. Vigier said: “He is guilty under the law, that’s true. But judicial truth is different from reality.”

Benzema won five UEFA Champions League titles during a 14-year period at Real Madrid between 2009 and 2023, before spending the past three years at Saudi Arabian clubs Al Ittihad and Al Hilal. He became a free agent when he left Al Hilal at the end of August.

Benzema left Real Madrid in 2023

Benzema began his career wearing Nike Mercurial boots during his emergence at French club Lyon but he moved to Adidas in 2007. He has spent the remainder of his career with the German brand, which released a signature pair of boots when he won the Ballon d’Or — awarded to the world’s best player that year — in 2022. However, an Adidas source, speaking anonymously as they were not authorized to speak publicly on the matter, confirmed to

The Athletic

on Wednesday that Benzema’s contract with the firm has now expired and that he is exploring different options.

After his contract ended with Adidas, Benzema’s team had the freedom to enter discussions with Nike to enable his participation in a collaboration between the brand and Corteiz, a London-based streetwear brand. Corteiz and Nike are collaborating to launch the ‘Shox R419’, part of a line of sneakers which feature cushioning units in the heels. As part of the arrangement, sources added, Nike agreed to provide Benzema with €75,000 ($85,321) by way of Nike product allowance, which is essentially access to Nike apparel or any products. Nike also agreed to provide travel to ensure Benzema arrived in London for the promotional shoot on Thursday, September 24. The conversations were facilitated by London-based creative agency Actually Creative Limited, which was engaged by Nike for the campaign advert.

As part of the planning for the Nike-Corteiz photoshoot, there were also early-stage exchanges over a possible wider ambassadorial role for Benzema within Nike.

On Wednesday,

The Athletic

approached Nike to say the publication intended to report Benzema had departed Adidas and was participating in a Nike shoot, via Corteiz, and had entered talks about a broader return to the brand as an ambassador. Nike insisted throughout Wednesday there were no active plans for Benzema to have a broader role, though

The Athletic

had been told by sources familiar with the conversations that the topic had been discussed, and said it does not comment on the details of contracts. At that stage, there was no suggestion that the filming would not go ahead.

Talks had been continuing between the creative agency, Nike and Benzema’s team only this week, but by Wednesday night, Nike pulled the plug on the entire collaboration with Benzema, informing his team that he need not fly into London on Thursday after all.

A representative for Benzema, when contacted by

The Athletic

, said only that Nike officially approached the player regarding the collaboration, rather than the other way around. They did not comment on the other points raised in the article. Corteiz and Actually Creative were approached for comment.

Benzema, without a club since the summer window, has not announced his intention to retire but it is unclear how long he intends to remain active as a player. He had worn Adidas boots as recently as last month and over the past year while playing in Saudi Arabia. That relationship, however, has ended.

It would have been the latest shift between brands of high-profile footballers after Kylian Mbappe last week made a significant change by

deciding to become

On’s first major signing following its expansion into football boots. Mbappe’s contract with Nike ended this summer.