Over 30 CEOs scored an invite to the US-China state dinner — and these 4 got a spot at the head table

2026-09-26

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/over-30-ceos-scored-an-invite-to-the-us-china-state-dinner--and-these-4-got-a-spot-at-the-head-table-134400923.html

President Trump touted Thursday's long-awaited state dinner at the White House as a tough ticket, and while the Chinese business delegation was notably absent, the glittering event featured a wide array of US CEOs.

The official invite list included more than 30 present or former US CEOs, largely from the technology sector, as well as from banking, carmakers, and pharmaceuticals.

Perhaps most striking were the four CEOs whom Trump's team chose to sit at the head table with the two heads of state.

Elon Musk of Tesla (TSLA) and SpaceX (SPCX) was seated next to Melania Trump, while Jensen Huang of Nvidia (NVDA), former Apple (AAPL) CEO Tim Cook, as well as Lisa Su of Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) filled out the head table.

In his remarks before the crowd, Trump said the US and Chinese relationship has been built on a "foundation of commerce and mutual respect between our countries, and together we can continue to build a relationship that promotes prosperity and security for future generations."

The dinner menu, according to the White House, featured three courses to showcase "American ingredients with subtle Chinese influence," including a wild mushroom fricassée, sesame-crusted sea bass, and honey ice cream.

The central table at a State Dinner at the WHite House featured US President Donald Trump, US First Lady Melania Trump, Elon Musk, Lisa Su, Daniel Lin (Lisa Su's husband), Jensen Huang Lori Huang, Tim Cook, Chinese first lady Peng Liyuan, and Chinese President Xi Jinping (speaking). (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) ·AP Photo/Alex Brandon

The guest list was notable for the outsized presence of tech CEOs and leaders in artificial intelligence. Huang, in particular, has spoken out in recent days against government regulations on the sector, a position Trump has often echoed.

One of the attendees, Satya Nadella of Microsoft, spoke to Yahoo Finance's Deirdre Bosa earlier this week and offered optimism about the overall US-China relationship, saying of AI, "I think both sides will care about the same set of things at the end of the day, which is they want to be able to have this technology actually help their citizens get value." He said safety will be an important element for both sides as norms are set.

The dinner — like many previous Trump events — mixed CEOs among administration officials, Republican party leaders, Fox News hosts, and Supreme Court justices.

Secretary of State Marco Rubio was at a nearby table, seated next to Citigroup (C) CEO Jane Fraser. Former Amazon (AMZN) CEO Jeff Bezos was seated next to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Dan Caine, according to a photo.

OpenAI (OPAI.PVT) CEO Sam Altman was also close at hand, along with White House Deputy chief of staff Dan Scavino (an aide who has been at Trump's side since the 1990s) and Meta (META) CEO Mark Zuckerberg.

Story Continues

Other business world names included Kelly Ortberg of Boeing (BA), Larry Fink of BlackRock (BLK), Sergey Brin of Google (GOOG), Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Mary Barra of General Motors (GM), Darren Woods of ExxonMobil (XOM), David Ellison of Paramount Skydance (PSKY), and Albert Bourla of Pfizer (PFE).

OpenAI CEO Sam Altman talks with Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg as President Donald Trump hosts a State Dinner for China's President Xi Jinping in the East Room of the White House. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) ·AP Photo/Alex Brandon

Here's the full list of invited guests provided by the White House

President Donald J. Trump

First Lady Melania Trump

President Xi Jinping

Madame Peng Liyuan

Vice President JD Vance

Second Lady Usha Vance

Secretary of State Marco Rubio

Jeanette Rubio, spouse of the Secretary of State

Chief of staff Susie Wiles

US Ambassador to China David Perdue

Bonnie Perdue, spouse of the US Ambassador to China

Secretary of the Treasury Scott Bessent

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and other guests listen as President Donald Trump hosts a State Dinner for China's President Xi Jinping in the East Room of the White House, Thursday, Sept. 24, 2026, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) ·AP Photo/Alex Brandon

John Freeman, spouse of the Secretary of the Treasury

Secretary of War Pete Hegseth

Ambassador Jamieson Greer, United States trade representative

Marlo Greer, spouse of Ambassador Greer

Cai Qi, CPC Political Bureau Standing Committee Member, Chief of Staff to President Xi

Wang Yi, CPC Political Bureau Central Committee Member

He Lifeng, CPC Political Bureau Central Committee, Vice Premier of State Council

Zheng Shanjie, Chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission

Wang Wentao, Minister of Commerce

Ma Zhaoxu, Executive Vice Foreign Minister

Ambassador Xie Feng, Chinese Ambassador to the United States

Ms. Ivanka Trump

Mr. Eric Trump

Eric Trump listens during a State Dinner with President Donald Trump and China's President Xi Jinping in the East Room of the White House, Thursday, Sept. 24, 2026, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) ·AP Photo/Alex Brandon

Ms. Lara Trump

Ms. Tiffany Trump

Mr. Michael Boulos

Mr. Viktor Knavs

Ms. Arabella Kushner

Jensen Huang, Nvidia CEO

Lori Huang, spouse of Jensen Huang

Mark Zuckerberg, Meta CEO

Dr. Lisa Su, Advanced Micro Devices CEO

Daniel Lin, spouse of Lisa Su

Tim Cook, chairman of the Board of Apple

John F.W. Rogers, Goldman Sachs executive vice president and secretary to the board

Lynn Martin, president of the NYSE

Linda Mills, president of New York University

Eric Yuan, Zoom CEO

Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang and his wife Lori Huang and Tim Cook, chairman of the board of directors of Apple, attend the state dinner. (REUTERS/Evelyn Hockstein) ·Reuters / REUTERS

Tang Fangyu Director, Central Policy Research Office of the CPC Central Committee

Minister of Finance Mr. Lan Fo'an

Mme. Wang Dan, wife of Ambassador Xie Feng

Zhou Hongxu, Deputy Director, General Office of the CPC Central Committee Director, Central Security Bureau

Lyu Luhua, Secretary to the President

Hong Lei, Assistant Foreign Minister Director General, Protocol Department

Cai Wei, Assistant Foreign Minister Director General, Department of North American and Oceanian Affairs

Mao Ning, Director General, Department of Press, Communication and Public Diplomacy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Zhang Quan, Secretary to Madame Peng

Zhang Yongchao, Deputy Director General, Department of North American and Oceanian Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Kelly Ortberg, Boeing CEO

Larry Fink, BlackRock CEO

Stephen Schwarzman, Blackstone CEO

Sam Altman, OpenAI CEO

Greg Brockman, OpenAI president & co-founder

Anna Brockman, wife of Greg Brockman

Dr. Miriam Adelson, Las Vegas Sands controlling shareholder

Sergey Brin, Google/Alphabet co-founder

Gerelyn Gilbert-Soto, partner of Sergey Brin

Satya Nadella, Microsoft chairman & CEO

Jim Taiclet, Lockheed Martin chairman, president & CEO

Sundar Pichai, Google CEO

Secretary of State Marco Rubio speaks with Sundar Pichai, Google CEO. (Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images) ·Kevin Dietsch via Getty Images

Larry Culp, GE Aerospace CEO

Sanjay Mehrotra, Micron CEO

Cristiano Amon, Qualcomm CEO

Jeff Bezos, Amazon chairman

Lauren Sanchez Bezos, spouse of Jeff Bezos

Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan CEO

Michael Dell, Dell CEO

Mary Barra, General Motors CEO

David Solomon, Goldman Sachs CEO

Jane Fraser, Citi CEO

Elon Musk, SpaceX & Tesla CEO

Darren Woods, ExxonMobil CEO

Chief Justice John Roberts, chief Supreme Court justice

Jane Sullivan Roberts, chief Supreme Court justice spouse

Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett

Jesse Barrett, Supreme Court justice spouse

Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh

Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh listens during a State Dinner with President Donald Trump and China's President Xi Jinping in the East Room of the White House. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) ·AP Photo/Alex Brandon

Ashley Estes Kavanaugh, Supreme Court justice spouse

Speaker Mike Johnson, United States House of Representatives, Louisiana

Kelly Johnson, spouse of Speaker Mike Johnson

Bret Baier, Fox News, American journalist and host

Amy Baier, spouse of Brett Baier

Laura Ingraham, Fox News, American television presenter

Rep. Richard McCormick, United States House of Representatives, Georgia

Jesse Watters, Fox News Host

Emma Watters, spouse of Jesse Watters

David Ellison, Paramount Skydance CEO

Susan Dell, spouse to Michael Dell

Kevin Warsh, chairman of the Federal Reserve

Jane Lauder, spouse to Kevin Warsh

Secretary Howard Lutnick, Secretary of Commerce

Allison Lutnick, spouse to Secretary Lutnick

Director John Ratcliffe, director of the Central Intelligence Agency

Michelle Ratcliffe, spouse to Director Ratcliffe

Amazon founder Jeff Bezos mingles among other guests, including OpenAI President Greg Brockman, and US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer, ahead of the state dinner. (REUTERS/Kylie Cooper) ·REUTERS / REUTERS

Special Envoy Steve Witkoff, US special envoy to the Middle East

Stephen Miller, deputy chief of staff for Policy and Homeland Security adviser, assistant to the president

Katie Miller, spouse of Stephen Miller

Dan Scavino, deputy chief of staff, assistant to the president

Erin Scavino, spouse to Dan Scavino

Attorney General Todd Blanche, Attorney General of the United States

Kristine Blanche, spouse to Attorney General Todd Blanche

Meredith O'Rourke, The O'Rourke Group

Secretary Chris Wright, Secretary of Energy

Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Secretary of Health & Human Services

Secretary Linda McMahon, Secretary of Education

Secretary Doug Burgum, Secretary of Interior

Kathryn Burgum, spouse to Secretary Burgum

Secretary Sean Duffy, Secretary of Transportation

Rachel Campos-Duffy, spouse of Sean Duffy

Director Russell Vought, Director of Office of Management & Budget

Administrator Lee Zeldin, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency

Acting Secretary Keith Sonderling, Acting Secretary of Labor

Brad Gerstner, Altimeter CEO

SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk mingles with other guests like Trump aide Dan Scavino. (Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images) ·Kevin Dietsch via Getty Images

Sangeeta Mehrota, spouse of Sanjay Mehrotra

Anthony Barra, spouse of Mary Barra

Kathy Woods, spouse of Darren Woods

Albert Bourla, Pfizer CEO

David Sacks, co-chair of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology

Administrator Kelly Loeffler, Small Business Administrator

Jeff Sprecher, spouse of Kelly Loeffler

Katie Simpson, fiancée to Brad Gerstner

Rep. Jason Smith, United States House of Representatives from Missouri

Sen. Steven Daines, United States Senator from Montana

General Dan Caine, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff

Director Jay Clayton, director of Office of the Director of National Intelligence

Bernard Arnault, LVMH CEO

Alexandre Arnault, son of Bernard Arnault

Ryan McInerey, Visa CEO

Michael Miebach, Mastercard CEO

Sandra Lynn Ellison, spouse of David Ellison

Cheryl Hines, spouse of Secretary Kennedy

Larry Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock, arrives for the state dinner in Washington. (REUTERS/Aaron Schwartz) ·REUTERS / REUTERS