Retailers feel the sting as cautious consumers weigh their options

2026-08-29

Por Hamza Shaban

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/retailers-feel-the-sting-as-cautious-consumers-weigh-their-options-100000047.html

The biggest theme this earnings season for retailers was trade-offs: between price and profit, promotions and growth, and getting customers through the door while household budgets are under pressure.

For the luckiest and best-executing companies, the value proposition drew consumers in.

With gas prices eating into wallets, the trade-down or value proposition of stores like Target (TGT) and Dollar General (DG) made an otherwise tough shopping choice easier to manage.

A twist this season was the impact of tariff refunds. Sure, fat checks from Uncle Sam padded corporate finances. But the refunds also brought in skepticism from investors and analysts. Did earnings beats and rosier outlooks stem from successful operations or the cash windfall that fell from the sky? (Or the Supreme Court, in this case.)

Even strong performances didn't automatically translate to wins on Wall Street. Walmart (WMT) and Dollar Tree (DLTR) highlighted that dynamic.

Dollar Tree beat analysts' expectations, but the stock fell 4% as the discount retailer's guidance for the current quarter disappointed. The chain was also a victim of sorts to the tariff refund: A healthy portion of its projected EPS for the current quarter comes from refund reinvestments. And even with that one-time exception, investors weren't pleased.

Walmart, for its part, posted US same-store sales that had the slowest pace of growth since the end of 2020, with traffic and ticket sizes coming in lower than expected. Whereas the executives of Lowe's (LOW) and Home Depot (HD) nodded to pressured and cautious consumers, Walmart's CFO pointed to the psychological impact of $4 gasoline and the trade-offs consumers are making.

One unambiguous bright spot in retail is the beauty category. From Walmart to Target, Estée Lauder (EL) to, most recently, Ulta (ULTA), which reported a beat and raised its outlook, at the end of the week, the growth of beauty merchandise reinforced the idea that the lipstick effect is in play. It might not be the right time to splurge on a bathroom renovation, golf clubs, or new clothes, but people are sticking to their skin care routine.

Other stores had stock stories defined by their individual quirks. Best Buy posted quarterly results on Thursday that surpassed Wall Street estimates as new technology boosted sales, but the stock fell 5% anyway. Shares had already risen more than 30% over the past six months, so it was tough to juice the ticker further without a blowout quarter. But the familiar and dominant theme cropped up: customers on the hunt for a bargain.