Trump's promise of a $5,000 midterm ‘dividend’ is at least the fourth time he's promised Americans checks this term. None of those came to pass.

2026-09-11

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/article/trumps-5000-midterm-dividend-is-at-least-his-fourth-promise-of-cash-for-all-americans-none-came-to-pass-135647789.html

Trump's $5,000 midterm 'dividend' is at least his fourth promise of cash for all Americans. None came to pass.

First it was a "DOGE dividend." Then it was a promise of tariff checks. Then government healthcare refunds were on the way. Now, President Trump is promising Americans another payout, this time if Republicans win in the coming midterm elections.

If the GOP wins both the House of Representatives and the Senate, "you win with us," Trump said Wednesday, promising that "a dividend to every adult citizen in the United States of America for $5,000" would follow.

"It will be called the Trump dividend," the president added at a Republican midterm convention in Dallas near the end of an almost two-hour speech.

But given Trump's record of unfulfilled check promises, his latest promise drew immediate skepticism.

He offered no details on how the estimated $1.3 trillion price tag for the idea would be covered beyond saying that "tremendous economic success" was making the dividend possible even as America's gross national debt recently surpassed $40 trillion.

Henrietta Treyz of Veda Partners told Yahoo Finance on Thursday that the proposal is not something investors should focus on, as it's unlikely to ever happen.

"This, to me, is just panic," she said, adding that the GOP is "looking at a wipeout" at the polls this fall as Trump has been dealing with cratering approval ratings (especially on economic issues).

The one detail that Trump did offer about the dividend plan is that the funds would need to be spent in the United States.

"We don't want you going to Canada to spend the money," he said, without detailing how that would be enforced.

Vice President JD Vance quickly suggested that any payment program may be more limited. He told Fox News shortly after Trump's speech that checks would be "for the middle class" rather than wealthy Americans, and that they would depend on future tariff revenue if the US "continues to create wealth."

Erica York of the Tax Foundation posted on X that Trump's proposal would appear to spend the projected tariff revenue over the entire coming decade in one fell swoop.

"There has been no paying down of the debt with tariff revenue, and there certainly won't be if you spend it all before you even collect it," she wrote.

19 months of check promises from Trump

A month after taking the oath of office in January 2025, Trump discussed plans for a "DOGE dividend," with a similar $5,000 figure bandied about as Elon Musk made promises about finding trillions of dollars in government savings.

Musk, of course, never found anywhere near that level of government savings, and the US annual deficit is projected to hit a record $2.1 trillion this fall. Musk left government after only a few months in Washington, and the DOGE dividend idea was quietly scrapped.