Federal Reserve interest rate hikes usually pound stocks, but then something surprising happens

2026-09-17

Por Brian Sozzi

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/article/federal-reserve-interest-rate-hikes-usually-pound-stocks-but-then-something-surprising-happens-100449563.html

Brace for minor market tremors now that the Fed has hiked interest rates by 0.25%.

Although if history holds up, any losses could prove short-lived.

The S&P 500 (^GSPC) has declined by an average of 4.0% over the six weeks following the first Fed rate hike of a cycle across seven such episodes since 1988, per new analysis from strategists at The Kobeissi Letter.

Stocks recovered all of those losses over the next five to six weeks on average.

In the six months following the first interest rate hike, the S&P 500 returned 4% on average. After 12 months, the S&P 500's average gain tallied 9%. Positive returns have occurred in every episode except 2022 over the 12 months.

"Fed rate hikes have historically been great buying opportunities," the strategists added.

Read more: Follow live coverage of the Fed meeting

The decision by the Fed to lift rates comes as sticky inflation readings — from the CPI to PPI — and rising energy costs force central bankers back into tightening mode. The rate hike marks the central bank's first interest rate increase since July 2023.

Investors are also focused on the updated economic projections and the Fed's "dot plot" to gauge future moves on rates — said dot plot didn't rule out one more hike this year. A hawkish dot plot as was received and follow up commentary from Fed Chairman Kevin Warsh could further elevate borrowing costs and pressure stocks initially around the world.

"Our US economists are also expecting that the Fed will hike today, as growth remains solid, the labour market has rebounded, and PCE inflation has demonstrated limited evidence of falling back to target," Deutsche Bank strategist Jim Reid said. "Moreover, forward-looking indicators suggest the inflation overshoot is likely to persist for some time. Nevertheless, with a hike mostly priced in by markets, the key question for them is how Chair Warsh and the latest dot plot frame the tightening cycle."

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance