Trump’s new Social Security tax rules favor high-income seniors — how Americans over 65 can maximize savings

2026-09-08

Por Vishesh Raisinghani

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/trump-social-security-tax-rules-103000438.html

Trump’s new Social Security tax rules favor high-income seniors — how Americans over 65 can maximize savings

Vishesh Raisinghani

7 min read

Moneywise and Yahoo Finance LLC may earn commission or revenue through links in the content below.

With a multibillionaire in the Oval Office, there's rarely been a better time to be rich in America. Nearly halfway into his second term, President Donald Trump's signature policy accomplishment has been the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA), a sweeping reform of the country's tax code.

Perhaps one of the most noteworthy aspects of this new tax law is the creation of a new additional standard deduction for older Americans (1), which already comes on top of the extra standard deduction older Americans already receive.

JPMorgan sees gold hitting $5,000/oz by Q4 — and savvy investors are protecting their wealth with a tax-advantaged Gold IRA. Get your free guide from Priority Gold

Starting in 2025 and running through 2028, anyone 65 or older can claim an additional $6,000 deduction. The amount is also counted per eligible individual, so two qualifying spouses can claim $12,000 combined. The deduction phases out above $75,000 in modified adjusted gross income, or $150,000 for couples filing jointly.

Even so, researchers and policy experts have found the savings skew heavily toward older Americans in the upper income tiers.

Here is how the law delivers for richer retirees at nearly everyone else's expense.

Benefits flow to the top

On paper, it might seem like the additional bonus benefits all Americans over the age of 65. However, when you consider that many low- and middle-income individuals were already exempt from taxes under existing deductions and income caps, you can see why adding an additional layer on top is targeted at top income brackets.

"Under prior law, nearly half of seniors already didn't owe any income tax, including on their Social Security benefits," says a report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (2). The report also points out that two-thirds of the benefits of this new deduction would flow to families with incomes between $80,000 and $270,000, citing the Tax Policy Center.

According to the report, this cohort of upper-income Americans represents "only a quarter of people over 65."

Meanwhile, the policy reduces Social Security's revenue by $30 billion annually, putting strain on the program's solvency. This is bad news considering that the underlying trust fund is now on course for depletion by 2032, according to the Social Security Administration (3), which could result in a benefit cut for all beneficiaries.

In other words, the new deduction might benefit a small number of affluent older Americans for a few years, but it could create a long-term funding issue that impacts everyone. That means you might want to take steps to protect your money right away — whether or not you qualify for Trump's new deduction.

Whether or not you qualify for the new tax deduction probably determines how you respond to its impact.

For those under the age of 65 or with a relatively modest income, diversifying your portfolio and adding some exposure to safe haven assets could bolster your finances and prepare you for any shocks to the benefits system.

For many investors, gold has typically served as a good way to hedge against any risks or upheavals related to government economic policy. If you are one of those investors (or want to be), a gold IRA is one option for building up your retirement fund with an inflation-hedging asset.

While gold can also fluctuate in the short term, it has historically maintained its appeal as a long-term wealth preservation tool. In fact, gold prices have increased by 133% over the past five years (4).

Today, you can combine the recession-resistant properties of the precious metal with the tax advantages of an IRA by opening a gold IRA with the help of Priority Gold.

And with Priority Gold's platinum package, you can even get free account setup and insured shipping and storage for up to five years. Plus, you can also roll over your existing IRA or 401(k) into a precious metals IRA with Priority Gold — tax and penalty-free.

The best part? You can download Priority Gold's wealth preservation guide for free and get up to $10,000 in complimentary silver upon making a qualifying purchase. Just keep in mind that gold is typically best used as one part of your portfolio.

Get tips from experts

The new deduction could give some older Americans a break on their tax bills, but it's important not to mistake it for a blanket exemption from taxes on Social Security benefits. Whether you actually qualify — and how much you could save — will depend on factors such as your income and overall tax situation.

And because the tax break is set to phase out in 2028, it may be tempting to focus only on the short-term savings. But Social Security can remain part of your retirement income for decades after you claim it, so it's worth looking at how the rules fit into your broader retirement strategy.

Senior-focused advocacy organizationslike AARP can help you access the latest news and analysis to stay up-to-date with all the changes to IRS rules, Social Security and retirement planning.

AARP members get access to guides that can help you make the most of Social Security, choose the right Medicare plan and uncover other government benefits — potentially saving you thousands.

Membership perks also go well beyond advice. You gain access to a broad suite of cost-saving perks — from healthcare-related discounts on prescriptions and dental services to savings on travel, leisure and insurance products.

If you're over the age of 65 and earn income within that upper range, you'll probably want to take full advantage of the benefit, as it's only available for a few years. If you're under the income thresholds, you could even deploy some sophisticated maneuvers, such as Roth conversions or high withdrawals, to take advantage of your new temporary deduction.

But you don't have to execute these strategies alone — an experienced expert can help you plan them out, with precision. If you have a portfolio of $250,000 or more, for example, platforms like WiserAdvisor can connect you with vetted professionals who specialize in this kind of planning.

Simply answer a few questions about your savings, retirement timeline and overall investment portfolio. From there, WiserAdvisor reviews its network to match you — for free — with up to three vetted, reputable advisors aligned with your specific needs.

WiserAdvisor is a matching service and does not provide financial advice directly. All matched advisors are third parties, and specific financial results are not guaranteed.

-With additional reporting by Aditi Ganguly

What To Read Next

A single line on your car insurance policy could be inflating your premium by up to 30% — here's what to change