Trump sounds less than sold on a diesel export embargo as his team weighs 3 options short of a ban

2026-09-29

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/energy/article/trump-sounds-less-than-sold-on-a-diesel-export-embargo-as-his-team-weighs-3-options-short-of-a-ban-153340969.html

President Trump on Sunday confirmed that he is "thinking very seriously" about an export ban on diesel, but he also acknowledged the move could have major drawbacks. To that end, his team appears to be weighing less dramatic options to combat record diesel prices.

A ban "can oftentimes lead to a little bit of an increase on gasoline for cars, so we're looking at it very seriously — we may do it," Trump told Fox on Sunday, acknowledging for the first time one of the key ways a ban could backfire.

It was also notably more cautious language from the president after he said last week he had "called for" an export ban.

Trump's latest comments come as the administration considers a series of options — some publicly pushed by top aides — amid high fuel prices just 36 days ahead of the midterm elections.

Other options include formally asking oil producers for a "voluntary" ban or limit on exports, suspending the federal diesel excise tax, and getting states further involved.

Trump's team has repeatedly stressed that many options remain open.

"No policy decision has been made at this time," especially in the direction of a ban, a White House official told Yahoo Finance on Monday. The president "is evaluating all the options on the table."

Diesel prices on Monday averaged $6.45 per gallon nationally, according to AAA, a slight decrease from last week's all-time record high of $6.52 per gallon.

But economists warn that a full ban on domestic exports would have wide-ranging and potentially destabilizing effects on the global economy.

A new analysis from Oxford Economics found that a ban could provide immediate price relief in at least some regions of the US — to the tune of prices dropping roughly 30% within weeks — but the effects wouldn't be felt evenly across the US. Beyond that, a ban would raise prices elsewhere in the world, including a possible 40%-50% jump in European wholesale prices.

A range of experts have also warned that a US export ban could lead US refineries to cut output, making any US price relief a short-term affair.

3 options also under consideration

The spike in diesel prices has led to a scramble within the Trump administration for alternatives, with early voting in some states set to begin next week.

Republicans facing headwinds have been urging the White House to act, especially in farm states that are particularly affected by high diesel prices during the current harvest season.

But the Trump administration has limited options. Global fuel markets have seen high prices due mainly to restrictions in the Strait of Hormuz and to Ukrainian attacks on Russian refineries.

One option being pushed is a voluntary limiting of diesel exports.

Energy Secretary Chris Wright said last week that such an option could be fruitful and that the administration is working with refiners on voluntary export curbs.

That approach has seen some support in farm country. Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa has been a leading voice calling for an export ban, but he recently hinted he might be open to a voluntary approach.

"A suggestion 4 Pres Trump," he wrote on X (in his distinct social media writing style), "tell Big Oil 2reduce their prices 4 Americans/not charge global price ... this is an America 1st issue."

Another option on the table — and one being pushed by oil companies — is to suspend the federal diesel excise tax or some regulations, which they say could ease prices in the US.

The American Petroleum Institute recently said in a statement that a blanket ban "would only compound the problem" and that "the answer is more supply and more flexibility."

But it's unclear if a tax suspension could be implemented quickly — and without action in Congress, which is unlikely with most lawmakers already at home for the campaign season.

The White House also appears to be urging states to take action, with some progress already in evidence.

Nebraska and other agriculture-heavy states have announced emergency plans to waive taxes on certain types of diesel to ease pressure on farmers and consumers.

Nebraska Gov. Jim Pillen signed executive orders last Thursday that included a 90-day suspension of diesel taxes for vehicles involved in agriculture or ranching.

In Alabama, Gov. Kay Ivey directed a 120-day halt in enforcement of rules governing tax-exempt diesel, a move that could increase supply.

Ben Werschkul is a Washington correspondent for Yahoo Finance.