Bessent: We can grow our way out of debt with 3% GDP growth

2026-09-10

Por Jennifer Schonberger

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/article/bessent-we-can-grow-our-way-out-of-debt-with-3-gdp-growth-230032528.html

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said he believes the US can grow its way out of debt if it can achieve annual economic growth of 3%.

"We don't have a revenue problem. We have a spending problem," Bessent said during a Q&A on Tuesday at SMU Cox School of Business in Dallas. If the US tries to contain spending coupled with 3% growth, he said, "we [can] grow our way out of this."

The total US national debt recently surpassed $40 trillion, and the annual fiscal deficit is projected to top $2 trillion by the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30.

Read more: How the soaring federal debt affects you personally

"We'll get to the other side of this Iran conflict and the underlying economy is very, very strong, and I think reaccelerating," he added, pointing to how incentives in the big tax law passed last year are leading to new construction of manufacturing plants, pointing to Pepsi (PEP) expanding a Frito-Lay plant in Arizona, Winnebago (WGO) buying a battery plant, and Boeing (BA) increasing capacity of its Dreamliner. Bessent posited that construction jobs created by the massive AI build-out now would turn into manufacturing jobs. More jobs are reportedly being created for US workers without college degrees in trades like carpentry and electrical work than for those with college degrees.

On the spending side, Bessent said he's been working with Russ Vought, director of the Office of Management and Budget, on a fiscal consolidation plan to reduce the deficit. He noted he would prefer not to rush it through a lame-duck Congress if Democrats take back one or both houses of Congress in the upcoming midterms.

He also said that if not for the Supreme Court striking down President Trump's "Liberation Day" tariffs, the US would be collecting $180 billion to pay down the deficit.

Bessent also again pointed to buying back long-term Treasury bonds in the interim.

"Interest rates are high, but … we're going to do more bond buybacks, which is just taking the most liquid portion of the bond market, liquefying it, and giving the bond buyers money to buy more," Bessent said.

Current interest rates, he said, are the most correlated that they've been with energy prices, and he thinks that will break. In a year or two, he said, the market will be oversupplied with oil, given the energy relationship the US is building with Venezuela now and as things normalize in the Middle East.

AI, China, and growth

When it comes to the artificial intelligence battle between the US and China's state model, Bessent said, "I think in 20 years we're going to see that it was the US model that won."