Chiefs' Travis Kelce named a victim in multi-million dollar Ponzi scheme

2026-09-17

Por Chris Cwik

https://sports.yahoo.com/nfl/article/chiefs-travis-kelce-named-a-victim-in-multi-million-dollar-ponzi-scheme-155923978.html

Kansas City Chiefs star tight end Travis Kelce was named a victim in a multi-million dollar Ponzi scheme, prosecutors revealed Tuesday. The man responsible for running that scheme — Siddharth Jawahar — was sentenced to 11 years in prison Tuesday and ordered to pay $31.35 million to investors, including Kelce.

Jawahar, who ran a company called Swiftarc Capital LLC, invested money from clients in a tobacco company called Philip Morris Pakistan (PMP). Once PMP started losing money, Jawahar was accused of lying to investors, claiming it was a profitable venture. Jawahar was also accused of telling investors he would make certain transactions, but then would never follow through. He reportedly received $35 million from investors, but invested only about $10 million, per the Kansas City Star.

It's unclear how much money Kelce invested with Jawahar.

Kelce was reportedly not the only athlete to invest in Swiftarc Capital LLC. Miami Heat guard Tim Hardaway Jr., Detroit Pistons center Mason Plumlee and Pistons guard Gary Harris were also said to have invested in the company, per a 2021 Forbes article.

If the investment and the resulting legal situation has taken a toll on Kelce, he hasn't shown it. The tight end hasn't spoken much about his life and actions off the field despite marrying music-industry titan Taylor Swift in the offseason. That relationship has made Kelce even more tight-lipped about his personal life.

The issue didn't seem to affect Kelce on Monday night either, when the Chiefs dismantled the Denver Broncos 31-10 in Week 1. Kelce was the team's leading receiver in the contest, hauling in three passes for 71 yards, including a 59-yard catch and run.

He'll look to find his way into the end zone for the first time this season when the Chiefs take on the Indianapolis Colts in Week 2.