Trump disclosed millions in new trades in SpaceX and Microsoft. Today, he gave medals to their CEOs.

2026-10-09

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/article/trump-disclosed-millions-in-new-trades-in-spacex-and-microsoft-today-he-gave-medals-to-their-ceos-182614694.html

Trump disclosed millions in new trades in SpaceX and Microsoft. Today, he gave medals to their CEOs.

President Trump made over 500 securities trades in August in newly disclosed transactions valued at tens of millions of dollars, including in major tech companies whose leaders have become frequent guests at the White House.

According to a new ethics disclosure, Trump made at least 20 trades — a mix of purchases and sales worth millions of dollars — in Nvidia (NVDA), Tesla (TSLA), SpaceX (SPCX), Alphabet (GOOG), Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Dell (DELL), and Microsoft (MSFT).

The disclosure was released Thursday, the same day Trump appeared at a "New Golden Age Summit" in Washington, where he presented medals to the heads of those companies.

Trump gave the National Medal of Science to Tesla CEO Elon Musk, Google co-founder Sergey Brin, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang, and Advanced Micro Devices CEO Lisa Su. Dell Technologies CEO Michael Dell and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella received the National Medal of Technology and Innovation.

"We have an extremely high-IQ audience," Trump said at the event as he lavished praise on the leaders and their companies, calling Elon Musk "a national treasure." Trump bought up to $5 million in SpaceX debt in August in the form of senior unsecured notes, the company's inaugural bond issuance, the disclosure shows.

"The entire world is running on Nvidia," Trump said of Jensen Huang and his company.

The new disclosure shows a continued high velocity of trading, particularly in tech stocks, in the president's account.

In total, Trump reported 517 transactions in August, a slower pace than previous months when the president's accounts often made over 1,000 transactions. Trump has disclosed more than 9,200 transactions so far in various documents over the first eight months of 2026.

Trump's brokerage accounts are managed by his company, the Trump Organization, which makes the trades and says they are overseen by third-party financial institutions without any input from Trump or his family.

"Neither President Trump, his family, nor The Trump Organization plays any role in selecting, directing, or approving specific investments," the Trump Organization said in a statement.

The largest disclosure in Thursday's release was a purchase of Meta (META) stock valued at between $5 million and $25 million.

The document also shows dozens of transactions valued at between $1 million and $5 million in major names including Microsoft, McDonald's (MCD), Comcast (CMCSA), ConocoPhillips (COP), and Abbott Labs (ABT.NE).

Trump sold between $1 million and $5 million worth of shares in Advanced Micro Devices, his only trade in that company in August.