Oil prices swing as Houthis claim strike on Saudi Arabia, US said to be negotiating Hormuz deal with Iran

2026-09-25

Por Jake Conley

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/oil-prices-swing-as-houthis-claim-strike-on-saudi-arabia-us-said-to-be-negotiating-hormuz-deal-with-iran-153248858.html

Oil prices swing as Houthis claim strike on Saudi Arabia, US said to be negotiating Hormuz deal with Iran

Oil prices swung on Thursday after news of attacks inside Saudi Arabia and forceful statements from US and Iranian leaders were tempered by reported dealmaking efforts between Washington and Tehran.

Futures on Brent crude (BZ=F), the international benchmark, rose by more than 4% to trade above $108 per barrel, taking back losses over the past few days that had pushed the contract below the key $100 mark, before falling to hold around $105. Those on US WTI crude (CL=F) ticked up by roughly the same margin to trade near $97 before pulling back below $95.

Oil prices originally spiked on Thursday after Yemen's Houthi militant group, which has been engaged in a widening conflict with Saudi Arabia, claimed to have succeeded in a major round of strikes on Saudi military targets. The growing conflict has severely curtailed the kingdom's ability to export oil, threatening to further reduce oil flows out of the Persian Gulf.

That news furthered a price rally originally sparked by forceful comments at the UN General Assembly summit in New York on Wednesday, where Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian said Tehran would continue to refuse to bow to US pressure. Pezeshkian also reaffirmed Tehran's commitment to maintaining its nuclear program.

While Iranian leaders have long insisted the country's nuclear program is only used for producing civilian energy, President Trump and other senior leaders in the White House have made Iran's nuclear capabilities a key red line in the war between the two nations. Trump has repeatedly asserted that Iran "must not have a nuclear weapon."

Trump said in his own comments to the UN that while he was debating whether to "annihilate" Iran, he expects a deal to be made between Washington and Tehran following the US midterm elections.

"I believe we'll make a deal right after the election because it doesn't make sense for them not to," Trump said. "They're waiting to see how I do in the midterm election."

Trump's comments were supported on Thursday by reports that US and Iranian negotiators are working toward a phased deal that would see the Strait of Hormuz reopened to shipping traffic by Iran in exchange for relief from the US naval blockade of the nation, first reported by Reuters.

That news sent oil prices falling, taking back some of the gains seen earlier in the day.

Yet even with dealmaking potentially back on the table, the global oil market continues to face multiple pressures. The Strait of Hormuz remains largely blocked to consistent through-traffic, and Houthi attacks have continued to disrupt Saudi Arabia's ability to export oil through the Red Sea. Attacks by the Ukrainian military have further damaged Russia's refining sector.