Americans Feeling Worse About Finances in August, NY Fed Survey Says

2026-09-09

Por Maria Eloisa Capurro

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/articles/americans-feeling-worse-finances-august-150000106.html

(Bloomberg) -- More US consumers in August reported a deterioration in their household finances over the past year, and more expect things will get worse in the year ahead, according to a Federal Reserve Bank of New York survey released Tuesday.

Most Read from Bloomberg

Less than three months ahead of mid-term congressional elections, the proportion of Americans reporting their financial situation was much worse or somewhat worse than a year ago rose to 38.6% last month, up from 37.6% in July. Those who expected their finances to get much worse or somewhat worse in the year ahead also climbed to 32.6% from 30.3%.

Views on the labor market were mixed, while inflation expectations improved slightly.

Workers' perceived probability of losing their job in the next year fell to 13.8%, the lowest reading since February. The likelihood of leaving a post voluntarily — a positive indicator — rose for the second straight month to 19.5%, above its 12-month average. Both trends were driven by respondents with a high school degree at most and a household income under $100,000 per year.

At the same time, more respondents expected the overall unemployment rate would increase in the next year. The mean probability rose to 44.4%, the highest reading since April 2020. The increase was broad-based across age, education and income groups.

Additionally, the perceived chance of finding a job in three months if one were to lose their post fell to 45%.

Inflation Expectations

Consumers expectations for inflation one and five years ahead were unchanged at 3.6% and 3%, respectively. Estimates for price increases in three years decreased slightly to 3.2% from 3.3% in July.

The New York Fed data comes days after a surprise increase in job gains in August signaled the labor market remained resilient despite uncertainties caused by the war on Iran and persistent inflation. Non-farm payrolls rose 162,000, above all estimates in a Bloomberg survey, while the unemployment rate held steady at 4.1%.

The data reinforced Fed officials' views of a stable job market. The Bureau of Labor Statistics will release August data for the producer price index on Thursday, followed by the consumer price index on Friday.