Goldman Sachs says 80% of ultra-rich investors are fleeing stocks for alternative assets — and it's not bonds

2026-09-28

Por Vawn Himmelsbach

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/goldman-sachs-says-80-ultra-111500026.html

Moneywise and Yahoo Finance LLC may earn commission or revenue through links in the content below.

Stocks have been on a tear recently. The S&P 500 has repeatedly hit record highs over the past couple of months, despite concerns over geopolitical turmoil, rising bond yields and some U.S. economic policies.

Still, some market observers see warning signs of potential weakness.

JPMorgan sees gold hitting $5,000/oz by Q4 — and savvy investors are protecting their wealth with a tax-advantaged Gold IRA. Get your free guide from Priority Gold

Despite the S&P 500 being close to its all-time high as a whole, Morningstar points out that nearly 60% of individual stocks on the index were actually down 20% or more from their all-time highs (1) in August. They also highlight the current volatility of stock prices, with many moving up and down by as much as 20% in just a few months.

Amid the uncertainty and volatility, current stock market conditions may have you wondering whether you should lighten your stock holdings. And if so, where should you invest the proceeds?

For many investors, selling stocks has typically meant moving the proceeds to bonds. Indeed, for those maintaining a portfolio such as the traditional 60/40 weighting of equities to bonds, the current run-up in stock prices and fall in bond prices could mandate a rebalance in this direction to maintain that weighting.

However, some evidence suggests bonds no longer hedge equities (2) — meaning that some investors might start considering how to allocate some of their portfolio to other asset classes.

One move they're making? A growing number of individual investors are adopting alternative assets. According to a survey by Goldman Sachs (3), 39% of individuals with $1 million to $5 million in investable assets are turning to alternatives. That number grows to 80% for those with assets of $10 million or more.

Indeed, about half (49%) of advisors say they're allocating more than 10% of client portfolios to alternatives (4), according to the 2025 CAIS Mercer Survey.

But you don't need to be an ultra-high-net-worth investor to benefit from investing in alternative assets. Here's how to follow their lead and get a foot in the door:

Add precious metals to your portfolio with a gold IRA

Gold is a classic example of a "strategic" asset (5) in a well-diversified portfolio. That's because gold prices tend to behave differently than stock or bond prices, providing diversification across asset classes and stability during geopolitical and market turmoil.

For instance, gold prices rose dramatically after the 2008 global financial crisis (6). Likewise, the price of gold hit $2,000 per ounce for the first time in history (7) during the COVID-19 pandemic — although current prices (8) are more than double that figure.

Beyond market concerns, inflation remains an ongoing issue. Over the past several years, inflation has remained stubbornly elevated (9).

Gold can be a valuable addition to a portfolio in this environment, since it has historically been treated as a long-term hedge against inflation — particularly when it's used as part of a broader inflation-hedging portfolio.

Holding gold as a tangible asset also protects you from other factors that could impact individual stock valuations, such as earnings, financial leverage and competitive positioning.

If you're new to alternative assets, buying and selling physical gold may seem daunting, but you have a few options. For instance, Priority Gold is a U.S.-based precious metals dealer with an A+ rating from the Better Business Bureau and a 5-star rating from Trust Link.

Beyond directly purchasing gold, you can also convert an existing IRA into a gold IRA — a specialized individual retirement account that allows you to hold physical gold instead of traditional assets, while combining the tax advantages of an IRA.

What's more, Priority Gold offers a 100% free rollover, as well as free shipping and free storage for up to five years. Qualifying purchases can even receive up to $10,000 in free silver.

To learn more about how gold can reduce inflation's impact on your nest egg, download Priority Gold's free 2026 gold investor bundle.

Real estate is another alternative asset that could act as an inflation hedge, provide a source of passive income and offer the potential for appreciation. It's often uncorrelated with stocks and bonds as well.

"A real estate investment provides a hedge against inflation if rents keep pace with, or outpace, the rate of inflation," Derek Graham, principal and founder of Odyssey Properties Group, told Fortune (10). "Property types such as multifamily that are able to adjust rents more rapidly tend to be the most inflation-resistant."

The typical lease term on an apartment is 12 months, Graham said, after which point the rent can be readjusted to reflect the current market.

It may come as no surprise that real estate currently accounts for a significant share of the typical family office portfolio (11).

But the time, effort and costs involved in managing and maintaining multiple properties can prevent a lot of people from investing. So, unless you're a hedge fund titan or an oil baron, you've been shut out of one of the most profitable corners of the market.

That's where a platform like Bonaventure could help. For accredited investors looking to diversify beyond public equities, Bonaventure offers access to institutional-grade multifamily real estate investments in high-growth markets with a minimum investment of $25,000.

Bonaventure focuses on income-producing apartment communities, offering potential tax advantages through structures like 1031 exchanges and UPREITs, allowing you to build passive income and wealth while the company manages the properties.

Plus, Bonaventure has a fully-loaded resource center that teaches you everything you need to evaluate multifamily investments. Sign up today, explore your options and construct your real estate portfolio.

For investors who want to get into the real estate market with a less substantial investment, you may want to consider Arrived, the platform that lets you buy stakes in rental properties starting with as little as $100.

Backed by seasoned investors, including Jeff Bezos, Arrived allows you to invest in shares of vacation and rental properties, earning a passive income stream without the extra work that comes with being a landlord of your own rental property.

To get started, browse through their selection of vetted properties, each picked for their potential appreciation and income generation. Once you select a property, you can choose the number of shares you want to buy and start earning dividends.

It's generally a good idea to consult your financial advisor before making major trades or rebalances — especially before changing the makeup of your portfolio to include alternative assets.

A financial advisor can help crunch the numbers and build a plan that works. But hiring an advisor can be a lifelong commitment, one that might make or break your long-term financial goals.

That's why shopping around for a reliable advisor is crucial.

If you find yourself uncertain about where to look for financial professionals, a platform like Advisor.com can do the heavy lifting for you, vetting advisors based on track record, client ratios and regulatory background.

It's also worth noting that its network is composed of fiduciaries, meaning they're legally required to act in your best interests.

Just enter a few details about your finances and goals, and Advisor.com's AI-powered matching tool will connect you with a qualified expert best suited for your needs based on your financial goals and preferences.

Once you have the right financial advisor in your corner, the next step is getting a clear picture of where your money's actually going. That starts with the basics — budgeting and tracking your spending. From there, you can determine the portfolio mix that suits your needs and whether alternative assets might be the right choice for you.

Want more Moneywise? Join 250,000+ readers who get our best stories and exclusive interviews in their inbox each week.

Article Sources

We rely only on vetted sources and credible third-party reporting. For details, see ourethics and guidelines.

Morningstar (1); Allianz Trade (2); Goldman Sachs (3); Mercer (4); World Gold Council (5); Bureau of Labor Statistics (6); CNBC (7); Gold Price (8); Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis (9); Yahoo Finance (10); PwC (11)

This article provides information only and should not be construed as advice. It is provided without warranty of any kind.