12 jobs that are set to boom over the next decade

2026-08-31

Por Madison Hoff

https://www.businessinsider.com/high-job-growth-over-decade-nurses-solar-photovoltaic-installers-2026-8

The future is bright for nurse practitioners and solar photovoltaic installers.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics published new job projections on Thursday, showing which roles are set to experience massive employment declines and which may flourish between 2025 and 2035.

The jobs projected to grow the fastest over the decade are a mix of healthcare, energy, and tech work.

Nurse practitioners, who typically earn six figures, had the highest percent increase at 41%, far faster than the overall projection of 3.5%. One reason for that projected demand is that in many states, they can perform duties that used to be reserved for physicians.

Two renewable energy-related jobs are also expected to quickly grow: Solar photovoltaic installers had the second-highest percent increase, and wind turbine service technicians had the fourth-highest.

"As the cost of PV systems continues to decrease, more households are expected to take advantage of these systems, resulting in greater demand for the workers who install and maintain them," BLS said.

Employment of data scientists is projected to increase by about 35% because businesses will need to hire workers to handle the expected increase in data usage and collection. Computer and information research scientists are also among the projected fastest-growing jobs, partly to work on AI tools.

Read more stories like this

Typical educational requirements vary among the top 12 jobs. BLS said solar photovoltaic installers typically need a high school diploma or the equivalent for entry. Nurse practitioners, computer and information research scientists, and physician assistants need more schooling. BLS said those jobs typically need a master's degree for entry.

Overall, US employment is projected to increase by 5.9 million over the decade, or by 3.5%, down from the 10.9% growth from 2015 to 2025. The private healthcare and social assistance sector could be a great place for job seekers to look, as it's projected to add the most jobs, due to an aging population and a rise in chronic health conditions. The AI boom is expected to affect the utilities sector as data centers continue to demand more electricity. BLS said the relatively small sector is projected to surge by 10%, the fastest among major sectors.

Are you a nurse practitioner, solar photovoltaic installer, or working in any of the other fastest-growing jobs? Reach out to this reporter to share at mhoff@businessinsider.com.