Crocs used to be wildly exposed to oil prices. Not anymore.

2026-10-09

Por Hamza Shaban

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/crocs-used-to-be-wildly-exposed-to-oil-prices-not-anymore-100000788.html

When you're talking about Crocs (CROX) on the internet, you're usually talking about nurses, a fashion faux pas, some Gen Z trend incomprehensible to the over-28 crowd, or whether the wearer was in sport mode.

You typically don't think of oil.

But this is the other side of the petrochemical business — it's not just about diesel and gas tanks. While a lot of companies are exposed to oil volatility because of shipping costs, Crocs has traditionally seen additional exposure because of the raw materials it uses to construct its footwear.

Croslite, the signature foam its clogs are made of, accounts for more than 80% of the materials used across Crocs product lines, according to the company. Since Croslite is derived largely from oil, the company is doubly vulnerable to the rising costs of crude (CL=F, BZ=F).

Read more: How the Iran war drives up the cost of gas and groceries

But despite that exposure, it seems Crocs has been able to tame one of the wildest manufacturing input costs, yet again.

According to Bank of America analysts led by Kendall Toscano, Crocs is likely to conquer 2027 without much trouble, following 2022, when it similarly navigated an oil shock. The shoemaker hasn't raised prices on its Classic Clog since 2021.

Specifically, Toscano et al. say the pressure of fuel surcharges and materials in 2027 ("assuming no moderation") will be offset by the company's "innovation."

"Innovation?" You might be thinking.

Yes. Crocs' exposure to oil has served as a positive catalyst for the company by turning its shift away from petrochemicals into a sustainability story — and critically doing so before the Hormuz crisis.

Starting in 2024, the company achieved a milestone by producing Croslite with 25% bio-circular content, or plant-based waste. By 2030, the company aims to achieve a Croslite formulation that's 50% bio-based — meaningful shifts away from oil and its fickle fluctuations.

And as a nice sustainability story, the company points out that by increasing the bio-circular content in its Croslite compounds, Crocs has reduced the Classic Clog's carbon footprint by 10% compared to the 2021 baseline.

That's, no doubt, compelling marketing material. But it has also helped shield the company from the oil shocks of the Iran war — and whatever else is to come.

Hamza Shaban is a reporter for Yahoo Finance covering markets and the economy. Follow Hamza on X @hshaban.

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance