The future of work is a group chat of AI bots talking to each other

2026-09-30

Por Hamza Shaban

https://finance.yahoo.com/technology/article/the-future-of-work-is-a-group-chat-of-ai-bots-talking-to-each-other-184248359.html

At OpenAI's DevDay presentation, a member of the product team, Holly Li, showed off her always-on enterprise agent, Dottie, her own personalized version of the company's latest AI product.

Powered by GPT‑6 Astra, Dot has its own cloud computer and can learn from user feedback over time, working toward your goals 24/7. Li framed her Dot as a way to take work off her plate. But that's another way of saying that colleagues won't just be interacting with each other — workers will be deploying their agents to collaborate with each other and their robot stand-ins.

The group Slack chat just got bigger. It's not just you and your colleagues, but you and your Dot and your colleagues' Dots.

Fashioning a high-powered AI agent that can perform impressive tasks and connect to 4,000 apps through ChatGPT is a direct challenge to Meta's Muse. And it stands to bolster OpenAI's annualized revenue, nearing $70 billion.

The ability to delegate was pitched as a way to lighten your own load, freeing up time for higher-level work. "All of us are getting tagged all day," Li said. "Now I can forward the thread to Dottie. I can just delegate."

In the demonstration, Li forwards her colleague's request on Slack to Dottie. And she said that her Slack DM's are filled with agent hand-offs. "I get to decide what needs my attention and what my Dot can take care of," she said.

But leaning on OpenAI's Dots isn't just about automating your own work.

Li said that colleagues started treating their Dots like their own delegates. OpenAI employees deployed their own busy bees, interacting with other colleagues and other Dots.

"By giving Dots their own identity, they become extensions of our team," she said. "And now we bring our Dots into group chats from the get-go.

Hamza Shaban is a reporter for Yahoo Finance covering markets and the economy. Follow Hamza on X @hshaban.

Click here for the latest technology news that will impact the stock market

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance