Musalem wants the Fed to explain how and why it sets policy — not exactly what it'll do

2026-09-30

Por Jennifer Schonberger

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/article/musalem-wants-the-fed-to-explain-how-and-why-it-sets-policy--not-exactly-what-itll-do-180241543.html

The Federal Reserve should communicate how and why it decides to set interest rates by developing a framework, not going dark, St. Louis Federal Reserve president Alberto Musalem said Tuesday.

Nor should central bankers lay plain exactly what they intend to do, he stressed.

Read more: How the Fed rate decision affects your bank accounts, loans, credit cards, and investments

"Promising a specific interest rate path is what earned forward guidance a bad name," Musalem said in a speech in London.

Good communication, he said, "means telling the public not when the central bank will act or exactly what it will do, but how and why it will decide."

"A central bank that does not explain how or why it makes policy decisions leaves the public to guess whether it is following a clear and reasonable approach or simply exercising discretion in setting policy," he added.

Musalem said developing a framework can explain how the policy rate will be adjusted in response to changing economic conditions to achieve policy goals. The Fed, he said, should avoid communications and actions with no framework to make sense of them. It should also avoid exiting the conversation altogether.

Fed Chairman Kevin Warsh, on the job only since June, has famously declared that he will no longer offer forward guidance, a shift in communication that had immediate repercussions both for Warsh's early job performance reviews and for market expectations of future Fed moves.

In his first two press conferences, Warsh refrained from offering any insight into the state of the economy, inflation, or the labor market. He did not explain the central bank's policy decision, nor did he lay out how the Fed might react if certain scenarios presented themselves.

The vacuum left markets guessing about the Fed's so-called reaction function, what it would do in certain scenarios, and whether central bankers were committed to bringing inflation down. Yields on long-term government bonds surged.

Warsh pivoted, and in a major speech in August in Jackson Hole, Wyo., he offered more clarity for markets. But he has maintained that the Fed should not spoon-feed what the central bank will do to markets because he wants instead to take signals from markets for setting interest rates.

Musalem's speech appeared to support that shift toward more clarity. He said the first advantage of a clearly communicated framework is a smoother transmission of monetary policy to the economy.

When a central bank keeps its framework to itself, he said, it does not free up markets to focus on data and other information. Rather, it forces investors to guess how the central bank will assess the state of the economy and react to it.