Warsh’s Top Fed Deputies Step in to Give Markets a Clear Message

2026-10-05

Por Enda Curran; Maria Eloisa Capurro

https://finance.yahoo.com/economy/policy/articles/warsh-top-fed-deputies-step-174923002.html

(Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Chairman Kevin Warsh has vowed to avoid sending clear signals to investors on where interest rates are headed. His top deputies made clear this week they're willing to oblige — and investors showed they're still listening.

Most Read from Bloomberg

Fed Vice Chair Philip Jefferson and New York Fed President John Williams said in separate speeches they believe the central bank has time to assess the economy before considering another rate increase, comments that reeled in investor expectations for a rate hike this month.

The remarks — delivered just two days apart — don't mean the Fed won't adjust policy any further. Officials continue to warn that inflation is too high, and consumer price data due on Oct. 14 could play a big role in that debate.

Yet close observers of the Fed said the takeaway from both speeches was clear: Traders had gotten ahead of themselves in betting on another hike in the wake of the Fed's Sept. 16 rate increase, and just as huge leaps in bond yields were sending borrowing costs sharply higher.

Before Williams spoke on Tuesday, traders saw the likelihood of a hike at the Oct. 27-28 meeting at 70%, based on pricing in federal funds futures. By the time Jefferson finished his speech on Thursday, those odds had slumped to around 25%, helped in between by softer-than-expected inflation data.

As the head of the New York Fed, Williams not only has a permanent vote on policy but also serves by tradition as vice chair of the Federal Open Market Committee. That person has long been considered — alongside the chair and vice chair — part of the central bank's leadership "troika" on monetary policy.

Under some past chairs, investors assumed that remarks from the vice chair or New York Fed president were used to signal the views of the whole troika. There is no evidence, however, that Jefferson and Williams coordinated their speeches with each other or with Warsh.

Still, Goldman Sachs economists said the combination of the Jefferson and Williams speeches cemented their view that an October hike is unlikely, a conclusion shared by others.

"We think the joint message from Jefferson and Williams is authoritative," Krishna Guha, head of economics at Evercore ISI, and colleagues wrote in a note to clients Thursday after Jefferson made his remarks.

Michael Feroli, chief US economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the two speeches were an attempt to manage expectations. "In both cases, it's the message that you don't have to keep piling hike on hike, meeting per meeting, and that you can kind of space things out a little bit here," he said.

Forward Guidance

Fed policymakers last month voted unanimously to raise rates by a quarter percentage point, the first increase since 2023 amid signs the broader economy was accelerating and inflation was proving stubbornly high. In projections released after the move, officials signaled support for one additional hike this year.

But Warsh has moved away from steering expectations for interest rates, known as forward guidance. He doesn't participate in the quarterly rate projections and has avoided hinting at future policy moves in his public remarks. Instead he's encouraged investors to take their signal from economic data.

That shift has attracted plenty of support. Critics of the practice say forward guidance serves a purpose during a crisis but offers little value in periods of fast-moving economic data when policymakers have limited visibility on where the economy is headed.

One example: Softer-than-expected inflation and employment data this week leaned against any urgency to again raise rates, but consumers keep spending and economic growth appears to be accelerating.

Ellen Meade, an economics professor at Duke University who advised Fed officials during a decades-long career at the Board of Governors, said the speeches by Jefferson and Williams don't necessarily meet the benchmark for forward guidance.

"This is the Fed behaving like the Fed," said Meade. "But I think there's a difference between forward guidance that locks in a rate change and forward guidance that says we're going to take our time making a decision and collect a lot of data. Subtle, but there's a difference," she said.

William English, a professor at the Yale School of Management and a former Fed division director, didn't think the Jefferson and Williams speeches were coordinated.

"These were people who were giving speeches that they thought were the right speeches, giving their views about the economy and policy," he said.

In the same week Jefferson and Williams spoke, a trio of regional Fed presidents appearing together at a conference in Asheville, North Carolina declined to offer any clues on their thinking. Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin, Boston Fed President Susan Collins and Kansas City Fed President Jeff Schmid each demurred when asked about their expectations for the central bank's final two meetings of the year, pointing instead to upcoming data.

"Let's see how things develop," Barkin said.

Still, the Jefferson and Williams speeches were followed by comments from Michelle Bowman, a governor and the Fed's top banking regulator, who said there's little urgency to move rates again.

Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan, who has been among the Fed's strongest advocates for rate hikes this year, said this week that multiple additional rate hikes will probably be needed to bring inflation back all the way to the central bank's 2% target. Yet she also pointed to rising term premiums in bond markets — the extra yield demanded by investors to hold longer-dated debt. Increases there could also help slow the economy, she said.

The end result was a five day period when markets sharply repriced their expectations for Fed interest rates for the remainder of this year.

Eric Wallerstein, chief macro strategist for Clocktower Group and previously an adviser to former Fed Governor Stephen Miran, said the comments from Jefferson and Williams were clear attempts at course correction.

"Officials are doing what they've always done," Wallerstein said. "Talking to the market when pricing reflects the 'wrong' reality."

--With assistance from Catarina Saraiva and Andrew Ackerman.

Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek

2026 Bloomberg L.P.