Trump said he'll stop Canada's Bombardier from being sold in the US

2026-09-11

Por Aditi Bharade

https://businessinsider.com/trump-stop-canada-bombardier-sold-us-2026-9

President Donald Trump doesn't want one particular Canadian aircraft crossing over into the US.

In a Truth Social post on Monday, Trump wrote: "No more selling Bombardier in the United States! Their products aren't good enough."

Trump said that if the company wants business from the US, it needs to build its jets in the US. Bombardier, an aircraft manufacturer based in Montreal, makes business and private luxury jets.

US federal agencies such as the US Air Force and the Federal Aviation Administration were previously reported to have Bombardier aircraft in their fleets. Representatives for the White House did not respond to a query from Business Insider on whether any federal agencies are canceling orders with Bombardier after Trump's announcement.

Bombardier wrote in a statement on its website on Monday, without any reference to Trump's post, that it's a "strong contributor" to the American aerospace industry, creating "tens of thousands of jobs across the United States."

The statement said that Bombardier's American workers are based across the US, with sites in Kansas, Texas, Arizona, Florida, Connecticut, Illinois, Delaware, California, Washington, D.C., and New Jersey. It has "overall direct employment presence in more than 20 states," Bombardier said.

The company said it also uses American-made aircraft components in its manufacturing, like engines, wings, and avionics. Its supply chain includes 2,800 American companies across 47 states, it added.

"Bombardier values its great partnership with American companies and its U.S. employees," the company said in the statement. "Our plan is to continue to invest in our people, our customers, and the communities in which we operate across the country."

Trump's post comes as trade tensions between the two neighbors flare. Canada's latest round of tariffs went into effect on Tuesday, imposing 50% duties on hundreds of US goods, including cheese, honey, and aluminum foil. These levies are a retaliatory response to the 50% tariffs the US imposed on Canadian products such as dairy, alcohol, and electronics.