Micron just blew Wall Street away again — here's what's next

2026-10-02

Por Brian Sozzi

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/article/micron-just-blew-wall-street-away-again--heres-whats-next-091328638.html

Micron (MU) blew it out of the water on its earnings day late Wednesday.

The main headline is that the memory chipmaker beat sales and profit forecasts for the quarter on voracious demand from the AI boom. Guidance was also strong, except for margin comments on the earnings call (which may be causing a muted premarket reaction).

But keep Micron's quarter in context.

Consider this: Micron added about $43 billion in sales in the most recent quarter compared to the year-ago quarter. That's massive. Operating margins exploded in all business segments.

The market is forward-looking, so the race is on to predict Micron's results over the next 12 months. Don't lose sight of what this company is doing right now; that's all we're saying.

Here's how Wall Street is seeing Micron's quarter and outlook:

-       "While Micron again delivered a strong beat quarter and provided above-consensus F1Q27 guidance, the most important takeaway was management's indication that memory markets could be even tighter in 2028 than they are today. We believe expectations for tightening supply-demand conditions through both 2027 and 2028 meaningfully extend the industry's runway for strong pricing and earnings growth, addressing a key investor concern that current fundamentals represent a cyclical peak." -D.A. Davidson analyst Gil Luria

-       "MU delivered a decisive beat-and-raise alongside a material step-up in SCA coverage, an upgraded view on supply-demand tightness, and confirmation of a near-certain capital return pivot - all drivers that we think ultimately dictate the strong multi-year earnings power narrative from here." -JPMorgan analyst Harlan Sur

-       "Implications for Japanese SPE firms: FY28/27 capex guidance is for a nearly 2x increase year over year, although much of the increase is driven by fab construction. Visibility on strong WFE market growth in 2027 is improving. For memory, Micron expects supply/demand to be even tighter in 2027 and 2028 than in 2026. Sector valuations could recover as visibility on SPE market growth in 2027 improves. Ahead of Jul–Sep quarter results, we recommend KOKUSAI, which should benefit from expanding memory demand. Among the small/mid-capex, we recommend Tokyo Seimitsu and Rorze." -Jefferies analyst Edison Lee

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance