Trump gathers with AI leaders and floats ‘self-regulation’ as the way to deal with the technology’s dangers

2026-09-30

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/technology/article/trump-gathers-with-ai-leaders-floats-self-regulation-as-the-way-to-deal-with-the-technologys-dangers-193745293.html

Trump gathers with AI leaders, floats 'self-regulation' as the way to deal with the technology's dangers

President Trump gathered top artificial intelligence leaders in Washington on Tuesday and doubled down on his opposition to government intervention, suggesting that "self-regulation" is the answer to growing worries about the technology getting out of human control.

"There's a belief that there should be tremendous self-regulation," the president said after meeting with the assembled CEOs. "There was a lot of commonality in this room."

Trump said he and the CEOs signed a "morally binding" accord that would keep the companies in line through "self-policing and group policing."

Trump posted a copy of the accord to his Truth Social account with a one-page document that called for each participating company to implement four different measures to safeguard the technology and added that, later on, "it might make sense to codify these steps into laws or regulations."

Some executives on hand said the accord included commitments to a combination of technological controls to detect problems with new models, internal risk review efforts, external auditors, and other measures.

Meta (META) CEO Mark Zuckerberg called the accord "a start," while others suggested some details still needed to be worked out.

"The mechanism, how we address those risks, is still under discussion," Anthropic (ANTH.PVT) CEO Dario Amodei said. Progress had been made toward both the US winning AI and also winning safely, he said, though he emphasized that the technology still poses "real dangers."

Amodei published an essay earlier this month titled "We Must Pace the Frontier," which set off a fierce debate about the need for a cooperative slowdown in AI capability.

The accord also formally changed the name of the technology in government record-keeping to Super Intelligence.

"We've changed the name officially to SI," Trump said.

The "meeting and luncheon on Super Intelligence," as the White House described the event, took place in the East Room, with Trump even posting the seating chart. The location was the same spot where just a few days ago, many of the same AI leaders gathered for a state dinner for Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Elon Musk of Tesla (TSLA), Jensen Huang of Nvidia (NVDA), and Lisa Su of Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) were all at the head table with Xi last Thursday and again received prominent spots near Trump.

After the meeting, Trump also said he was "very close" to a decision on an AI czar and would announce it in the next three to four days.

Other notable guests included Google (GOOGL, GOOG) CEO Sundar Pichai, Microsoft (MSFT) CEO Satya Nadella, OpenAI (OPAI.PVT) president Greg Brockman, Palantir (PLTR) CEO Alex Karp, Amazon (AMZN) founder Jeff Bezos, and others.