AI titans invited to Trump-Xi dinner

2026-09-21

Por Katherine Long

https://www.politico.com/news/2026/09/17/ai-titans-trump-xi-dinner-01083068

AI titans invited to Trump-Xi dinner

The executives' attendance signals artificial intelligence could be a key talking point during negotiations next week.

09/17/2026 04:36 PM EDT

OpenAI CEO Sam Altman, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang and Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon plan to attend next week’s state dinner with President Donald Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping, four people familiar with the event told POLITICO.

The executives’ attendance at the White House summit signals artificial intelligence will likely be a key talking point during negotiations and comes as fear the technology could destroy humanity has roiled the industry.

An OpenAI spokesperson, who confirmed Altman’s attendance, did not detail his goals for the summit and instead pointed to his recent comments that the two leaders could earn a Nobel Peace Prize if they reach a deal on AI. Another person, who was granted anonymity to speak on details not yet made public, confirmed Huang’s attendance, but did not provide details on his goals for the summit.

A Qualcomm spokesperson confirmed Amon’s attendance, saying the CEO will represent the company and “the strength of American technology leadership on the global stage.”

Anthropic declined to comment on whether it received an invitation. Spokespeople for Google, Meta and AMD did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The highly anticipated Sept. 24 summit comes as some in the artificial intelligence industry urge the two leaders to put safeguards on the rapid development of advanced models.

Altman and Huang have taken opposite stances on whether AI development should be stifled to ensure safety.

Altman on Saturday backed Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei’s calls for an industrywide slowdown on AI development and told Fortune in an interview last week that Trump and Xi should establish standards for building and testing advanced AI models.

Huang, similarly to Trump, has dismissed fears that AI will end humanity as “hysterical.” Huang has also personally lobbied the White House and Congress to allow Nvidia to sell its advanced AI chips to China, raising questions as to whether chips will come up in next week’s negotiations.

Trump has frequently invited tech executives to attend his summits with Xi. The president invited a group of 17 business leaders to accompany him to China for discussions with Xi in May, a trip to which Huang received a last-minute invitation.

Brendan Bordelon, Christine Mui and Owen Dahlkamp contributed to this report.