Man City and their fans did not think this day would come

2026-09-25

Por Texto propio

Man City and their fans did not think this day would come.

By Sam Lee

Sept. 25, 2026

Friday was the day that Manchester City never seemed to believe would arrive.

Over three and a half years after the Premier League levelled the initial 115 charges at the club, *The Athletic* revealed they have been found guilty of almost all of them.

Punishments are not yet known, which only seems to add to the enormity of the situation: everything appears to be on the table now, from stripped titles to relegation. Even the idea of a fine has become much more serious — surely any financial penalty would be massive.

Lawsuits related to lost earnings for rival teams could take years to resolve, and result in further financial hits. Rival club executives, let alone supporters, will be baying for blood. And what next for the most senior figures, like chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak and CEO Ferran Soriano? Both will be under huge pressure to resign. What about Erling Haaland, and the club's other top stars on long contracts?

Judging by City's response to this kind of thing over the years, it was never supposed to be this way. Ever since the club were first accused of financial wrongdoing in 2018, when *whistleblower Rui Pinto published a tranche of hacked emails*, they have been bullish in the extreme.

When they went to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in 2020 to overturn UEFA's decision to ban them from the Champions League, a picture emerged of former manager Pep Guardiola and the club's top brass, including Soriano, smiling in front of a television screen that bore the news of the club's courtroom triumph. City had not engaged with UEFA's process as they felt it would be prejudiced, so they presented their evidence to CAS instead.

When the Premier League announced its own charges in February 2023, City said they welcomed the opportunity to clear their name and present the "comprehensive body of irrefutable evidence that exists in support of its position", and that has been the line ever since. Given City's victory over UEFA, it always seemed highly possible, if not likely, that the Premier League would be seen off in the same way.

In the 18 months since the independent panel's hearing concluded in December 2024, nothing has leaked out from the process, either from City or the Premier League, with both parties very careful to ensure they are behaving by the book.

But City have not acted like a club concerned about the outcome: within weeks of the end of the hearing, Haaland signed a new nine-and-a-half-year contract and the club spent around £175million ($232m) on new players in the January transfer window. Since then, with a verdict never seeming imminent, life has carried on as normal, with City continuing to build their squad and add to their list of global sponsors.

Friday's shock news means all of those positions have to be re-evaluated. Even hours after the story was published, City's employees, including players, coaches and even staff at a senior level, had received no formal communication about the verdict. Much like the first news of the charges in February 2023, this was not seen coming.

City did give a statement to *The Athletic* on Friday afternoon, though, and it carried the same air of defiant confidence as their previous public communications.

"The Premier League process remains ongoing, with significant elements to be completed, and subject to strict confidentiality. As such, Manchester City FC's position remains consistent with the club's statement of February 2023.

"The club has diligently respected due process for eight years on the basis the Premier League board and executive would behave as an independent, impartial and fair-minded regulator, free from partisan influence."

There is plenty to be read between the lines there — that the process has not been independent, impartial or fair-minded — and it may be that these are the final desperate declarations of a beaten party.

It does bring to mind those whirlwind hours after UEFA banned City from the Champions League in February 2020, though, when the news agenda continued as if there was no question of their guilt and that they had the ban coming to them, only for the appeal to change the narrative completely.

Some around City may still cling to that hope, and the story may yet change, but things seem different this time, namely because the club did not withhold their case like they did with UEFA; they laid out their biggest arguments during the 12-week hearing via experienced, impressive lawyers, and the independent panel have decided against them at almost every turn.

It has left everybody connected to City reckoning with a scenario they never felt would play out. Everybody knows it is bad, but nobody knows exactly how bad — what will become of the trophies won? Where will City be playing their football next season?

Beyond those big, material considerations, there will be a great deal of soul-searching. There is a special kind of loyalty in football that ensures fans will stand by their club no matter what, and there will be a certain amount of bullishness beyond the usual faith — supporters who have always believed that Financial Fair Play was brought in to clip City's wings, who believe that the 'Red Cartel' of Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester United are behind all kinds of sinister dealings, will only lean further into their arguments, and back their own club even more. Many will want to wait until City themselves say more, or until an appeal is heard.

But there will be many questioning the club's leadership, and how they could be so confident that this day would never come, and appear to be so wrong. Some will feel lied to. The loyalty that many will feel towards the club may only serve, at least in the first hours and days, to put them into a difficult spot — there is only so much you can turn a blind eye to.

The last thing City fans would expect is any sympathy, of course, but there is also a sadness at the heart of it, going back to the idea that this was never really on the horizon. Life as a City fan for the past decade has been, by and large, fantastic. They had one truly bad season under Guardiola and still finished third and reached the FA Cup final. They bounced back last season to win the two domestic cups and, under Enzo Maresca, they are top of the Premier League with a 100 per cent record.

There were ups and downs before Guardiola but the trophies won under Roberto Mancini and Manuel Pellegrini were still considered beyond their wildest dreams. The taunts and abuse from rival fans will be one thing, but the feeling that they may have been misled, that they have gone out on a limb to defend the club from allegations that, seemingly, turned out to be true, will hurt even more.

City fans have had their phones blown up by the gleeful taunts of friends who support rival teams. In less friendly settings, the glee could become too much to bear, and the reality is that everything the club has achieved over the years — the trophies and the performances that elevated them to the top of the world game — will not be taken seriously by anybody as long as Friday's verdict holds, and that will sting.

Fans who were in the stadium for Sergio Aguero's '93:20' title-clinching goal against Queens Park Rangers in 2012, or in Istanbul for the Champions League triumph in 2023, or any of the countless memorable nights over the past 10 to 15 years, will insist that those memories can never be taken away, and that is difficult to argue with.

And after the shock has died down, the old jokes from City fans about relishing the opportunity to return to the Football League, where they last were in 2000, will surely still hold water if that eventuality comes to pass.

"If we are guilty we will go to the lower divisions like before, we will call Paul Dickov and Mike Summerbee," Guardiola joked years ago, referencing City icons from days when they were not at this exalted level, and that chimed with supporters.

There is a particular type of City fan who has seen all the highs and lows who does, in some way, miss the old days. The idea of a jaunt or two to some of the country's pokier stadiums sounds quite appealing, especially if the idea is that promotion will almost certainly be achieved at the end of the slog.

It all feels a bit more real, now. What if the players required to bounce back immediately from a hypothetical relegation are not there after all? It may not be the case, but nothing can really be ruled out at this stage.

There is confusion, but also sadness and most likely anger — in whichever way it is directed.

City appear ready to continue the fight, and supporters are bound to stand by them while they do, but Friday's news has changed the landscape beyond recognition.