MongoDB stock tanks after Meta poaches CEO

2026-09-28

Por Michael B Kelley

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/mongodb-stock-tanks-after-meta-poaches-ceo-132048225.html

MongoDB (MDB) stock is falling after Meta (META) hired MongoDB CEO Chirantan "CJ" Desai to lead the new Meta Enterprise Platform.

"Meta Enterprise Platform will use our strengths that few other companies have: advanced models, leading agents, large-scale infrastructure, and years of working closely with many businesses," Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg stated in a press release. "Initially, we will focus on bringing our full technology stack, including the Muse agent, Meta Business Agent, Muse API, Muse Code, and more to businesses and developers to help them grow."

Read more: Meta's Muse is an impressively capable AI agent, despite some hiccups

MongoDB addressed the departure, naming company veteran Dev Ittycheria as interim president and CEO. Ittycheria served as president and CEO MongoDB, which provides servers and a platform to help enterprises store and manage large amounts of data, from 2014 to 2025.

"MongoDB's business is strong, and there is no better person to take on the role of President and CEO in the interim than Dev Ittycheria," Tom Killalea, chairman of the board of directors, stated in a press release. "He knows this company deeply, has remained an involved and active executive board member over the past year, and will step in immediately to ensure a seamless transition."

In a note to clients, Guggenheim Securities analysts described the move as "a real shocker to us considering a few factors: 1) CJ has been at the company for less than a year, 2) he has been the main spokesperson for the company with regards to MongoDB's suitability for agentic development to customers, partners, investors, and 3) MongoDB's annual investor day is tomorrow."

The note added that the "only slight positive news is that former CEO Dev Ittycheria will reassume the role of President and CEO for now—there is no one that is better suited to run MongoDB, in our view. However, Mr. Ittycheria was clear about his retirement plans, so he will likely be looking for an appropriate successor soon, and hopefully he will stay on longer to pass along his invaluable institutional knowledge."

Click here for the latest stock market news and in-depth analysis, including events that move stocks

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance