It's Time to Come Together About Tech in Schools

2026-09-30

Por Newsletter

A free toolkit for all stakeholders.

DIGITAL LITERACY & WELL-BEING WEEKLY

EdTech Essentials: Right Age, Right Purpose, Right Conversation

Christine Elgersma

Senior Editor, Learning Content Strategy

Hi Educator,

When I first started at Common Sense Media, I was reviewing apps and websites for learning potential. There was an explosion of edtech tools, and some were reaching classrooms. It was a

very

mixed bag. But there were some truly excellent screen-based activities (not replicable on paper) that I could heartily recommend as a former teacher, envisioning how the experience could open up whole worlds, curiosity, collaboration, critical thinking, and instant feedback.

Then the pandemic made school-issued devices essential, and students completed all work on them. Whatever tech use was already happening just increased. More recently, schools are also

grappling with AI

. Jump forward in time, to right now—the "techlash."

If you haven't been directly impacted by the call for

less edtech use in schoolwork

, you've likely heard about it. As general anxiety around kids' tech use rises, screens used for schoolwork are also under intense scrutiny.

It often feels like district leaders, classroom teachers, and parents and caregivers are at odds. Between budgeting restrictions, increased mandates, falling standardized test scores, and desires to go back to a pen-and-paper approach, it can feel hard to get on the same page.

Meanwhile, the debate swirls around the people we all want to protect and prepare: kids.

We all want them to learn and thrive. Now it's time to move forward in a student-centered way that isn't all-or-nothing.

From a research-based perspective, built with focus group feedback, and serving all stakeholders, this

Tech in Schools toolkit

can help school leaders, educators, and caregivers understand best practices and have constructive conversations.

It has what you need, for everyone:

Age-and-Stage Guide: Tech in Classrooms

: Guidance for districts to make research-based decisions.

Talking Points About Tech

: Help for educators as they communicate with families (with an editable handout).

Questions About EdTech to Ask Your Kid's Teacher

: Assistance for parents and caregivers to ask questions that start a constructive conversation.

… and much more.

Here are the essential steps:

Age and stage

: When we start with the age and stage of students, we're grounding device use in child development research.

Purpose and parameters

: If we determine our intentions, learning objectives, and parameters around the tech we're asking kids to use—and why a screen enhances the learning experience—we have to carefully consider why and when device use boosts learning.

Clear communication

: How we communicate these choices to parents and caregivers is key: Informing them about the what, why, and how of their kids' tech use for school allows them to ask constructive questions that are easier to answer.

Protecting and preparing kids

: It's essential to give kids the critical thinking and self-regulation skills they need to build ongoing, lifelong digital literacy and well-being habits.

It's not about teaching them to use tech. It's about giving them the information that will protect them—and their community—from harm, and preparing them to think critically about the tech and media they'll encounter after graduation

This isn't an us vs. them scenario. And it's not a "bad" or "good" situation.

It's about the right age, the right purpose, and the right conversation, no matter what role you play in a child's life.

We've been on this beat for decades, doing research, advocating for tech guardrails, and helping both families and schools with these issues. We've seen tech—and its impacts on kids—evolve. We're here now, meeting this moment with you, ready with free resources to walk all of the people who care about kids through this often tricky tech landscape. Use this toolkit to take the next steps, on the same page, together.

Best,

Chrissy

Fun link of the week:

When we're all on the same page for kids' learning and well-being

Did you find this email useful?

Your feedback helps us improve.

HERE'S WHAT ELSE WE HAVE FOR YOU THIS WEEK:

USE WITH STUDENTS

Does Our AI Policy Work for Us?

Invite students into this relevant conversation, and give them agency around an issue impacting their lives.

GET SOME TIPS

Collaborative Strategies for Healthy Tech Use in Schools

Watch this recorded webinar for tips on how to work together on kids' use of tech for learning.

DO SOME PD

Privacy and Safety: What If the Call Is Coming from Inside the House?

Join us on Monday, October 5, at 1 p.m. ET to learn what to do when students share login credentials, share a group chat screenshot, and more real-life scenarios.

CHECK THIS OUT

Digital Citizenship Week Is Almost Here!

Join us October 19–23 to help build students' critical thinking and media literacy skills for a world that's increasingly full of AI and AI-generated content.

SHARE WITH FAMILIES

Cozy Fall Movies for the Family

These selections can help families slow down and enjoy the beginning of autumn.

We’re an independent, mission-driven nonprofit powered by people like you.

Make a donation today

Get answers to FAQs

Manage email preferences

Common Sense Media

699 8th Street, Suite C150, San Francisco, California 94103