Investors must not forget their mission as AI hate grows

2026-09-22

Por Brian Sozzi

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/investors-must-not-forget-their-mission-as-ai-hate-grows-154939851.html

Investors have one job: Invest capital and, hopefully, earn a return.

One can sit in their chair and fret over the AI extinction predictions floating around the internet, or they can keep their head down and make money off the technology (as they have probably done for over three years now).

"My job is to make money for clients," EMJ Capital founder Eric Jackson said on Yahoo Finance's Sozzi Unleashed when asked if the AI extinction fears have impacted his investing approach.

The backlash against artificial intelligence has intensified this month, and it goes far beyond people hating on data centers being built in their backyards.

Security has taken center stage after the high-profile Hugging Face incident. It has led various figures in tech to sound the alarm about the impact of AI, with some even questioning whether the human race will survive.

"Over the last few months, I have become convinced that fully addressing the risks requires even more prudence — not just investing in risk prevention, but pacing the rate of capabilities advancement so that risk prevention has time to keep up," Anthropic (ANTH) CEO Dario Amodei stated in a 3,800-word essay on Sept. 12. "We must slow the pace at which we improve the capabilities of A.I. models. Progress will still seem fast, and we must make wise use of the time we gain."

OpenAI (OPAI.PVT) CEO Sam Altman said that he agreed with his rival, and then followed that up with a dark X post of his own.

Speaking at the annual Dreamforce software festival last week, Salesforce (CRM) co-founder and CEO Marc Benioff gave his bottom-line read on the debate over artificial intelligence: Leaders in AI have to step up and meet the safety moment.

"I know that we're all deeply disappointed with how the social media companies have operated over the last decade or more," Benioff told Yahoo Finance. "We know how many kids have been hurt. We've seen what has happened even to certain countries because of narratives on social media. And we cannot let AI be social media 2.0."

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance