Oil settles up 2% after Trump rejects return to Iran ceasefire deal terms

2026-08-28

Por Siddharth Cavale

https://finance.yahoo.com/energy/articles/oil-extends-losses-on-hopes-middle-east-talks-could-ease-supply-woes-081929665.html

By Siddharth Cavale

NEW YORK, Aug 27 (Reuters) - Brent crude prices settled up by 2.1% on Thursday, snapping a three-session losing streak, after a Wall Street Journal report said U.S. President Donald Trump is not interested in returning to terms of a memorandum of understanding reached with Iran in June.

Citing people familiar with the matter, the report said the Trump administration has repeatedly told mediators it has no interest in reviving the June agreement, complicating a flurry of diplomatic efforts this week to restart talks.

Brent crude futures finished up $1.86, or 2.1% at $89.70 a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures settled up $1.30, or 1.6% at $83.53.

Both benchmarks rebounded as investors scaled back expectations of a diplomatic breakthrough that could boost oil flows from the Middle East.

A lack of progress in talks, combined with continually restricted flows, could have prompted an adjustment of market views, UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo said.

Earlier on Thursday, Washington confirmed it was not in talks with Iran despite diplomatic efforts by other countries to re-engage the two sides.

"We don't want to speak to them. We're not looking to meet or anything," Trump told reporters later in the Oval Office, saying the U.S. was focused on punishing Tehran economically and would penalize countries that do business with the Islamic Republic.

On Monday, the U.S. announced what it called the "toughest sanctions in history" on Iran. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent suggested the measures would lessen the need for new major military operations.

Ebrahim Azizi, head of the Iranian parliament's national security committee, said the sanctions were an "inhumane and hostile act" that had nevertheless lost their effectiveness.

Qatar's prime minister visited Tehran on Thursday in a bid to relaunch diplomatic talks to end the U.S.-Israeli war with Iran, on the eve of its six-month anniversary.

Iran's top security official Mohsen Rezaei warned that Tehran would target U.S. military and economic interests if Washington started any "mischief" during the talks with Qatari officials.

PROLONGED UNCERTAINTY

"At the heart of the dispute remains Iran's nuclear programme and that is unlikely to be resolved quickly ... Iran also understands the importance of its geographical position and the leverage that the Strait of Hormuz provides, so the risk of prolonged uncertainty remains," said Priyanka Sachdeva, head of market insights at Phillip Nova.

The Strait of Hormuz handled about one-fifth of global daily oil and liquefied natural gas supplies before the conflict began in late February.