Millennium Nears $100 Billion in New Era for Giant Hedge Funds

2026-09-08

Por Hema Parmar; Katherine Burton

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/millennium-nears-100-billion-era-210034426.html

(Bloomberg) -- Millennium Management is speeding toward a rarefied status in the hedge fund universe.

Most Read from Bloomberg

Its assets have hit $97 billion, according to people familiar with the matter, more than double what Millennium oversaw six years ago. The ascent toward $100 billion has vaulted Izzy Englander's firm past most of his largest competitors — even as they, too, are managing record sums — and landed him into territory that few other hedge funds have ever breached.

Englander, 77, is showing no signs of slowing down. In fact, he's ramping up an unusual model of seeding dozens of smaller would-be rivals to give his firm more capacity to take on investor cash.

On Oct. 1, Millennium will close on $22 billion of new commitments, calling $2 billion of it that day, and the rest within four years. It has also talked about raising $3 billion more for a less-liquid credit fund. Given that the firm usually generates annual returns of at least 10%, total assets could crack $130 billion in the next few years.

It's a golden age for the industry's top players. The largest, AQR Capital Management, surpassed $140 billion of hedge fund assets this year, and DE Shaw & Co. now oversees about $90 billion. A half-dozen other firms have exceeded $75 billion, the most ever to eclipse that threshold.

As the biggest hedge funds get even bigger, some institutional investors are growing concerned that more cash parked at fewer firms could create systemic risks to the financial system, according to Ivy Invest co-founder Wendy Li.

These funds tend to invest similarly, and in times of distress, often sell at the same time, Li said.

Weighing the risks of a long-short equity fund is fairly straightforward, "but at big quants or multistrats, it would be harder to pinpoint what might go wrong until after the fact," she said.

That Millennium and other players are clustered around the $100 billion mark underscores just how much the industry has changed over the decades.

Thirty years ago, the standard was a star portfolio manager with a small team making a few high-stakes bets. But running more than $20 billion proved impossible. Even investing legends Julian Robertson and George Soros, who once were tied as heads of the world's biggest hedge funds, failed to sustain swashbuckling trading at that size. In 2000, Robertson was forced to close his Tiger Management after losing billions of dollars, and Soros moved to less speculative wagers after the dot-com bubble burst.

"Hedge funds used to be the Wild, Wild West — of shooting to the moon with less transparent, highly concentrated bets," said Lindsay Costigan, a prime services sales executive at TD Securities. Clients now seek more diversified firms that can churn out steady returns regardless of market volatility, she said.

Englander has taken advantage of this shift more than anyone.

Of all the the big multistrategy firms that manage money by spreading risk over dozens or even hundreds of trading pods, Millennium has added the most assets the quickest. He has outpaced Steve Cohen's Point72 Asset Management and Dmitry Balyasny's eponymous firm, which both oversee less than $60 billion. And in the past four years, Englander leapfrogged his closest rival, Ken Griffin's Citadel, which manages about $77 billion.

Many other firms have stopped raising more client cash, and some, including Citadel, have even returned profits at the end of each year, fearing that managing too much money would crimp returns. Bridgewater Associates, once the world's largest hedge fund and the first to ever cross $100 billion, cut its hedge fund capital well below that level after years of poor performance.

"Hedge funds used to be the Wild, Wild West — of shooting to the moon with less transparent, highly concentrated bets."

Englander almost did, too. After a run of subpar returns a decade ago, the Brooklyn native discussed giving back some of the roughly $35 billion he oversaw at the time, according to a separate person familiar with the matter. Whatever changed his mind, Millennium posted one of its best years in 2020. Ever since, he has decided to go all-in on getting much bigger.

Even as assets continued to swell after the pandemic, Millennium raised another $10 billion in 2024 and tapped the last $5 billion of that cash pool in August, according to the people familiar with the matter, all of whom not asked not to be named discussing non-public information. Now it's preparing to refill its coffers again next month.

Englander has grown much wealthier in the process. His personal fortune stands at an estimated $32 billion, placing him at No. 75 on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a ranking of the world's 500 richest people, as of Sept. 4.

While Millennium's annualized returns — about 14% since inception — are lower than Citadel's 19%, investors continue to give the firm money for reliably posting monthly gains of 1% or 2%. It had only one down year, 2008, when it lost 3.5%.

Because Englander aims for steady returns rather than turbo-charged gains, he can afford to diversify.

To access talent quickly, Millennium took the unusual step of seeding dozens of smaller external hedge funds — often writing multibillion-dollar checks.

It also added established firms to the mix. One was Jain Global — a $5 billion hedge fund with seven distinct business lines — that Bobby Jain built after leaving Millennium. Another was Javier Velazquez's $1.5 billion Albar Capital Partners, which Millennium seeded in 2018. Both kicked out their own clients to manage money exclusively for Englander's firm.

Millennium expects to do more such deals, according to some of the people familiar with the matter.

Englander built a decentralized shop from the start, with independent teams that do whatever they like, as long as they make money. Risk controls are strict: Lose 5% and your book gets cut in half; lose 7%, and you're probably looking for a new job.

Over Millennium's 37-year history, the firm developed a giant platform that provides its pods with regulatory, trading, technology and risk systems for almost every global market and strategy. That has made it easier for Millennium to keep adding teams — and even whole firms. It now has more investment professionals in more cities than its multistrat competitors.

And to ensure a stable base of capital, it holds investors' money for far longer than rivals. Clients commit cash that can be tapped over three to four years and, once deployed, it can't be pulled for five years. The firm's closest peers lock up clients for three to four years.

Hedge funds now oversee more cash than ever, reaching $5.6 trillion at midyear, a 25% increase since the end of 2024, according to Hedge Fund Research.

AQR may have already surpassed $150 billion in hedge fund strategies thanks in large part to its long-short tax-aware products, which aim to use losses to reduce taxes. That strategy has been growing by roughly $1 billion a week.

DE Shaw reached $90 billion of hedge fund assets in July, gaining $40 billion in just 19 months, mostly from soaring returns. Its two biggest funds are closed to new money.

Fellow quant shop Two Sigma Investments has attracted investor cash and posted gains, propelling assets to $80 billion, even amid a bitter public feud among its billionaire founders.

TCI Fund Management, the concentrated equity fund run by Chris Hohn, has also continued its swell. The firm typically wagers on just 15 to 20 stocks, holding each for about nine years on average. A 6% gain this year through mid-August has likely boosted the $77 billion it ran as of December.

At Millennium, wealthy individuals may help fuel future growth. Millennium was one of the earliest to tap that pool, and the group now accounts for 30% to 40% of its assets. Other funds have since jumped on board, and access that was once reserved for the elite is increasingly accessible.

"The largest firms have an advantage in being distributed by bank platforms and registered investment advisers to the everyday wealthy, because of their scale and reputation for success," Li said. "It will make the biggest firms even bigger."

Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek

2026 Bloomberg L.P.