Newly minted tech millionaires are now clamoring for financial advice

2026-09-10

Por Brian Sozzi

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/newly-minted-tech-millionaires-are-now-clamoring-for-financial-advice-135732903.html

SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. — Managing newfound tech wealth is not without its challenges and key considerations for the founders and employees who have accrued it.

"I think what we're seeing across the board with wealth creation in particular is just the pace of this wealth creation has happened so quickly, and scale is just tremendous," Goldman Sachs partner and San Francisco region head of private wealth management Brittany Boals Moeller told Yahoo Finance at the firm's Communacopia & Tech conference (video above).

"We're seeing, as you might imagine, a huge uptick in inquiries from founders and executives of many AI companies, but also the researchers, the developers, the investors who are all facing these sort of life-changing decisions," Boals Moeller said. "And they need access to very quick, smart advice."

The relentless surge in tech valuations — powered by the AI boom — is fundamentally reshaping household wealth across the tech sector.

Read more: What is generational wealth, and how do you build it?

As companies are bought or go public, equity-heavy compensation packages are turning into life-changing windfalls for workers, many of whom have never experienced such wealth before, let alone all at once.

This dynamic reached a crescendo in 2026 during SpaceX's (SPCX) record-breaking June public debut, which reportedly minted more than 4,400 employee millionaires —ranging from software engineers and executives to hourly welders, technicians, and launch technicians.

"Charity is a huge focus of this group," Boals Moeller said. "And so we do a lot of work on the front end to help them identify what are those key missions that they want to support, and then craft a plan around that that's thoughtful around tax as well."

"For a lot of these clients, too, this is the first time that they've had this wealth, this ability to have this impact," she added. "And it's the first time they've ever potentially been part of a public company. And so, walking through what are the nuances of having a highly concentrated equity position, even the basics of a lockup, you know, 10b5-1 plans, blackout windows — how does that all work? There's a wide dispersion of outcomes that can occur. And so a lot of it is just thinking through scenario planning and helping them have the right information so that we can put their strategy in."

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance