Why BofA sees inflation creeping back at Walmart this year

2026-10-02

Por Brian Sozzi

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/article/why-bofa-sees-inflation-creeping-back-at-walmart-this-year-155651376.html

The view that corporate earnings can remain strong despite rising inflation is about to be put to the test. By the looks of what's happening in the aisles of retail behemoth Walmart (WMT), the economy could soon face growing consumer headwinds.

"Oil and diesel prices continue to rise … This is driving upward pressure on commodity costs and vendors are starting to increase prices," Bank of America analyst Chris Nardone wrote in a note today after hosting Walmart CEO John Furner and investor relations senior vice president Steph Wissink for meetings in Boston.

"We expect WMT will need to raise prices selectively to help protect margins but likely at a slower pace than the industry," Nardone added. "Rollbacks (across grocery and gen merch) peaked last quarter at 11k; this should normalize to a lower number in the second half. This coupled with the egg deflation lap is driving higher inflation expectations relative to earlier this year."

Read more: What is inflation, and how does it affect you?

The latest inflation readings show that price pressures remain elevated.

The August Consumer Price Index rose 3.4% from a year earlier. Core CPI increased 2.9%, with gasoline accounting for more than one-third of the monthly increase. The Fed's preferred PCE gauge also rose 3.4% year over year in August.

Producer prices are adding to the inflation story, with the August Producer Price Index (PPI) up 5.4% over the prior year, suggesting businesses continue to face meaningful input-cost pressures.

To combat inflation pressures brought on by the Iran War, the Fed announced its first interest rate hike in three years in mid-September.

Read more: How the Fed rate decision affects your bank accounts, loans, credit cards, and investments

Despite these pressures, consumers haven't yet buckled under the rising cost of living.

"Management [at Walmart] described the consumer backdrop as stable, citing good back-to-school results and noting that the pronounced trade-down behavior observed during the 2022 oil shock has yet to materialize, aided by favorable wage growth and labor market conditions," Nardone said.

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance