The deeper reason behind the relentless rise in bond yields

2026-09-28

Por Brian Sozzi

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/the-deeper-reason-behind-the-relentless-rise-in-bond-yields-120000422.html

Over the past few days, you have probably been hit over the head with stories about rising bond yields.

I hate to admit it, but I even churned out a host of stories on yields this week. Love me a good headline!

The rise in yields is one of the most important things happening in markets right now. Actually, this started in the summer, but you know what I mean.

"I would say [it's] not a crisis but an eye-opener, and it's something I think you've got to think about," BlackRock chief investment officer of global fixed income Rick Rieder said on Yahoo Finance's Sozzi Unleashed.

Rieder was among the finalists for the Fed chair role that ended up going to Kevin Warsh.

But I don't want you to lose focus on the "why" behind the move. It's not because of some warning on the nation's debt from some third-rate investing pundit. That's not the reason at all.

The reason is that the economy is weakening under the tightening grip of inflation. And this is going down just as the Federal Reserve makes it costlier for businesses and you, the consumer, to borrow money.

Here are a few red flags I have picked up on this week that no one is talking about, other than me.

-       Execs at payroll services company Paychex (PAYX) said this week that we are in a low-hire, low-fire environment. Hardly a bullish economic endorsement.

-       Lucky Charms maker General Mills (GIS) warned about more quarters of pressured margins at the hands of a big pickup in inflation in things like wheat, diesel, and packaging. I think this sheds light on what the Fed hawks like New York Fed president John Williams are telling us about rate hikes.

-       Cracker Barrel (CBRL) called out a 6.1% traffic drop in its most recent quarter. Darden (DRI) said sales at its Olive Garden chain grew just 1.1% in the quarter. The read: Much higher gas prices are swallowing up the disposable income of many households.

It's always important to know the "why" when it comes to markets — and sadly, the "why" isn't great in the case of yields.

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance