Bubble warnings are spiking. But bullish retail investors are buying the high.

2026-10-09

Por Ethan Wolff-Mann

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/bubble-warnings-are-spiking-but-bullish-retail-investors-are-buying-the-high-100000102.html

Hedge fund legend Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates became the latest big name to issue a warning about a potential AI bubble, noting that the market is "close to that" level.

On top of that, Dalio gave investors something actually specific to watch: when billionaires decide to take profits and sell.

While Dalio was speaking generally about market concentration, hype, and the vibe-based phenomena associated with bubbles, others have been a little more specific.

Joachim Klement, a head market strategist at UK investment bank Panmure Liberum, told Bloomberg that his "core conviction is that the AI bubble will either burst in 2027 or in 2028," as he adjusted his outlook.

While Klement, who was at UBS for years, has a view that's heterodox compared to his Wall Street peers, this big proclamation hit harder given his September projection for the S&P 500 for year-end 2027 was a bullish 8,300.

It's 5,000 now, with Klement making the case that a market derailing could come from high debt and inflation torpedoing hyperscaler free cash flow and causing an AI implosion.

The market can — and will — debate the merits of Klement's arguments over the coming months as the resilience of the economy and market gets tested. But one thing is clear: Retail investors are completely unbothered.

According to Bank of America, regular people (and hedge funds) are actually feeling bullish.

"Retail clients were net buyers — the first inflows from retail since late July," BofA Securities Jill Carey Hall wrote in a Wednesday note to clients.

We can see a similar trend, albeit less scientifically, by looking at Google Trends to see whether people are searching for "stock market bubble." A fast but loose market anxiety shortcut, to be sure, but even Wall Street uses it sometimes.

Looking at the past year, we see an early June high of "100" — these are relatively dimensionless numbers — and a downward trend for the most part since then, with a jump in September and a drop into Thursday's "14."

It's clear we're nowhere near other, more fraught moments of 2026. But that doesn't mean Dalio and Klement are wrong. And for what it's worth, the Google Trends prediction line is trending up. Perhaps this Bloomberg headline sums up the moment, or possibly the entire cycle, like no other: "Novogratz joins crowd warning of AI bubble, says pile in anyway."

Ethan Wolff-Mann is a Senior Editor at Yahoo Finance, running newsletters. Follow him on X @ewolffmann.

Click here for in-depth analysis of the latest stock market news and events moving stock prices

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance