3 reasons why Trump’s promise that his Venezuela oil deal will ‘fill up’ the Strategic Petroleum Reserve won’t be quite that simple

2026-09-01

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/trump-promises-his-venezuela-oil-deal-will-fill-up-the-strategic-petroleum-reserve-its-not-that-simple-171322844.html

But an array of issues suggests it won't be quite that simple. There are questions about the deal's legality as well as whether it will yield anywhere near the level of oil Trump is promising in the decades ahead.

On top of that, Venezuela produces a different kind of oil than what is stored in the US energy backstop.

"DOE has analyzed heavy oil storage and found that the costs outweigh the benefits and storing heavy oil would present considerable operational difficulties," a 2016 report to Congress said.

Meanwhile, a weekly update showed the reserve dropped by another 3 million barrels over the last week, to 286.6 million barrels from 289.7 million barrels.

Oil markets offered notes of skepticism to the Venezuela deal on Monday, with oil prices rising in spite of a claim from Trump that the deal "will substantially lower Gas Prices for all Americans."

Energy traders are more focused for now on developments in Iran after the US and Iran exchanged fire for the first time in about a month, and Trump posted an apparently AI-generated video of Kharg Island, a key Iranian seaport, "being blown to smithereens!!!"

Venezuelan oil is 'heavy,' but 'the SPR does not contain heavy crude'

The exact contours of the deal between the US and Venezuela remain murky, with no contract publicly released.

Officials from the two nations have outlined plans for a new joint venture between the US government and a still-unnamed private operator, which will be given 100-year leases for Venezuelan oil fields that geologists estimate contain billions of barrels.

But the process of getting that oil out of the ground could take years or even decades, and energy companies are keenly aware of the challenges of extracting it.

Venezuela has the largest proven oil reserves in the world, but for decades it hasn't been able to capitalize on them to become a major oil producer.

And the oil itself poses its own challenges. The US likely cannot deposit Venezuelan oil directly in the reserve, despite Trump making it sound that simple, calling the oil "a Gift from Venezuela to the People of the United States."

What's produced in Venezuela is mostly a dense crude oil that sinks in water and contains a high level of sulfur — "heavy sour" in oil industry parlance.

The SPR contains crude oil that the Energy Department notes is for "the most part ... of light gravity" (meaning it would float if placed in water) with a mix of both sour and sweet oil in different caverns but no heavier oil.

Monday's release showed that the energy backstop currently has about 97.3 million barrels of "sweet" oil and 189.3 million barrels of sour oil.

Trump blames Biden, but both presidents depleted the reserve

Trump put the blame for the reserve levels squarely on Biden, claiming that his predecessor had "virtually emptied" the reserve.

But both presidents are responsible for the historically low levels.

The reserve stood at 394 million barrels when Trump was inaugurated last year, meaning he has overseen a drawdown of well over 100 million barrels since taking office.

The reserve has been dropping by an average of 6.3 million barrels each week since early April, after the Trump administration announced plans to withdraw as much as 172 million barrels to try to steady global energy markets.

Biden oversaw a drawdown of almost 250 million barrels during his four years in office, largely because of his own efforts to buoy energy markets during the initial aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine in 2022.

Trump also saw a withdrawal of over 50 million barrels during his first term. The reserve is now at about 40% of its level when Trump first took office in 2017.

Ben Werschkul is a Washington correspondent for Yahoo Finance.