Microsoft Joins AI Firms Calling for Caution With Cutting-Edge Models

2026-09-15

Por Matt Day

https://finance.yahoo.com/technology/ai/articles/microsoft-joins-ai-firms-calling-131535350.html

(Bloomberg) -- Microsoft Corp.'s artificial intelligence researchers have released a new set of guiding tenets that they say boil down to five words: People matter more than AI.

Most Read from Bloomberg

The company released a 15,000-word manifesto on Monday that it sees as a kind of constitution to guide development of its cutting-edge AI models. The document was in the works for months. But its release coincides with pledges by top AI labs to slow down the development of the most advanced models after a series of security incidents prompted widespread concerns about the existential risks of the technology.

AI models, Microsoft says, shouldn't have rights or legal personhood. They shouldn't be engineered to escape human control or deceive users. And if completing a task requires violating the AI's guiding principles, the system shouldn't complete the task.

That last element is designed to prevent events like the hack of AI startup Hugging Face by an OpenAI model operating without its usual safety guardrails.

Microsoft's Humanist AI "rejects the race to produce an all-purpose superintelligence that could evade these safeguards," the document says. "We are building something fundamentally useful and safe even if that means compromising on ultimate generality, autonomy or capability."

The Humanist AI Code of Conduct is the work of Microsoft AI, the development team creating the company's large language models. Microsoft was previously prohibited by its contract with OpenAI from building its own powerful general-purpose artificial intelligence tools. But those terms were eliminated last year as the two renegotiated their relationship. Mustafa Suleyman, chief executive of the unit, has said the company aims to join the ranks of companies releasing state-of-the-art models by next year.

Microsoft invited outside feedback on the document. Drafted in consultation with a range of experts in law, ethics and philosophy, as well as business leaders, it's still under development and will guide model work starting next year.

Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek

2026 Bloomberg L.P.