Oil prices approach $100 as Middle East conflict flares, Goldman sees potential upside to $120

2026-09-09

Por Jake Conley

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/oil-prices-approach-100-as-middle-east-conflict-flares-goldman-sees-potential-upside-to-120-122234220.html

The price of the world's primary oil benchmark rose close to the $100 per barrel mark on Tuesday, approaching the key level for the first time in two months after a new wave of hostilities in the Middle East.

Futures on Brent crude (BZ=F) rose roughly 2.3% to trade near $98.50 per barrel after briefly crossing $99 earlier in the session, while those on US benchmark WTI crude (CL=F) picked up 2.7% to trade at $94 per barrel.

Pressuring the oil complex most immediately on Tuesday were reports that Saudi Arabia has halted operations at energy facilities throughout its southern region, per the kingdom's central press agency, after attacks claimed by the Houthi militant group that has been blockading Saudi oil shipping out of the Red Sea.

The attacks come as the United States and Iran have returned over the past two weeks to a more forcefully kinetic war than had been seen in roughly a month, pushing oil prices higher as worries grow over tightened supply.

The United States on Saturday struck three crude oil tankers belonging to the Iranian government after Tehran's Revolutionary Guard Corps launched a series of ballistic missiles at two US Navy warships in the region, per US Central Command.

Two of the three Iranian crude oil tankers were "permanently disabled," and the third was fully destroyed. No US service members were harmed, US Central Command said.

As the war enters its sixth month, the flare-up in conflict in the Middle East, combined with a global market supply deficit, prompted Goldman Sachs' oil strategy desk to raise its price targets for the two key benchmarks on Monday.

The bank's desk, led by head of oil research Daan Struyven, now sees international Brent and US WTI futures trading at $85 and $80 per barrel, respectively, in December, compared to prior forecasts that were $5 lower. Prices on Brent and WTI will likely trade at $80 and $75, respectively, in 2027, the strategists said.

Oil traders have maintained throughout the war and the disruptions to shipping in the Strait of Hormuz that prices for the key energy product should be far higher. Part of why they are not, Goldman Sachs strategists said Monday, is because drawdowns of commercial stocks held by private companies in OECD countries, which play a key role in setting clearing prices, have remained relatively small.

Drawdowns have instead occurred from global government Strategic Petroleum Reserves, from oil that had already been loaded onto ships at the start of the conflict, and from reserves held within China, which has lowered its crude imports to roughly 60% of last year's levels, per Goldman Sachs.

That said, prices could move significantly higher if structural pressures are not solved, the Goldman strategists said.

While oil supply from the Persian Gulf has recovered to about two-thirds of pre-war levels as GCC nations have utilized pipelines and other Hormuz workarounds, the strategists estimated Brent futures could rise to $120 per barrel if Gulf supply remains significantly disrupted. Intensified attacks on shipping through the Strait of Hormuz and the Red Sea are "the most likely trigger of price upside," the strategists said.

Iran said on Monday that a deal between Tehran and the Omani government over the Strait of Hormuz was close at hand, with plans for a temporary safe shipping route for vessels to transit the critical waterway, which before the war handled roughly 20% of the world's oil volumes. However, the deal is understood to not include the US, which has maintained that Iran cannot be allowed permanent control over the strait.

In Washington, Trump and the broader administration have continued attempts to jawbone prices downward, even as the market moves the other way. Gasoline prices averaged $4.15 per gallon nationally on Tuesday, per AAA, up from $4.02 one month ago.

While the Treasury Department under Secretary Scott Bessent has launched so-called "Operation Economic Onslaught" in an attempt to target foreign financing of the Iranian regime, the US has so far held back from major actions against China, the dominant buyer of Iranian oil.

Taken together, the energy market remains in a state of limbo, Jorge León, head of geopolitical analysis at Rystad Energy, told Yahoo Finance, where not much has changed even as prices move up.

"I don't think things have materially changed compared to two weeks ago," León said. "Even though tit-for-tat strikes between the US and Iran have re-intensified, I don't think both parties are escalating significantly."

"If they wanted to hit hard on each other, they could have done it, but they have not," León added. "We've seen this volatile environment [of alternating strikes and diplomacy] … and I think the market is taking into account those recent events."

Jake Conley is a breaking news reporter covering US equities for Yahoo Finance. Follow him on X at @byjakeconley or email him at jake.conley@yahooinc.com.