Apple is the 'toll collector on the consumer AI highway,' Dan Ives says

2026-10-09

Por Ethan Wolff-Mann

https://finance.yahoo.com/technology/article/apple-is-the-toll-collector-on-the-consumer-ai-highway-dan-ives-says-100000129.html

Apple (AAPL) has positioned itself many times between the consumer and what they want, with great success.

The iTunes store. The App store. As Michael Gambon said in "Layer Cake" — a quote I have written about before and will many times again — "The art of good business is being a good middleman," and Apple understands this as well as anyone.

But Apple's ability to execute this strategy is thanks to its access to that middle ground: Controlling and supplying the world's most popular devices, like the iPhone and iPad, makes this possible.

Yorkville Ives's Dan Ives said this sums up his bullish case for the slick hardware king, the sometimes-most-valuable company, still flying high without being directly involved in frontier AI.

"In our view, Apple will be the toll collector on the consumer AI highway," Ives wrote in a note to clients on Thursday. "While the last few years Apple has struggled with its AI strategy and went through many twists and turns, now finally Ternus and Cupertino have a horse in the race with an AI vision that will build over the coming years into a formidable piece of the Apple strategy."

In Ives's view, letting the other companies develop — and pay for — the AI savoir faire should work out just fine, given that everyone will have to go through that corporate tollbooth, similar to how app developers had to go through and tithe Cupertino its standard 30% commission.

Ives said this is underappreciated and not priced into Apple's stock, and he believes another $75 should be tacked onto the company's share price, as AI capabilities will facilitate upgrades and a 15% boost in services revenue.

If this happens, it'll be an impressive Houdini from what seemed to be an intractable position of being left in the dust by its tech peers. And it'll show how reach and network effects were just as important as technological innovation.

"Much of the debate has centered on whether Apple arrived early or late to generative AI," Ives wrote. "We think the question that matters more is how well the company can put useful AI in front of an installed base of more than 2.5 billion active devices and 1.5 billion iPhones."

If the company could put U2 into everyone's pocket (without asking), it's not to be underestimated.

Ethan Wolff-Mann is a Senior Editor at Yahoo Finance, running newsletters. Follow him on X @ewolffmann.

Click here for the latest technology news that will impact the stock market

Read the latest financial and business news from Yahoo Finance