Iran and Oman announce progress towards 'future administration’ of the Strait of Hormuz. Iran says they are also talking about joint tolls.

2026-08-28

Por Ben Werschkul

https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/article/iran-and-oman-move-closer-on-future-administration-of-strait-of-hormuz-tolls-are-in-the-mix-143204896.html

Iran and Oman — the two nations that abut the Strait of Hormuz — met this week and announced new progress toward a "permanent navigational corridor and future administration" of the crucial waterway.

Iran went further, claiming the sides have reached a revenue-sharing agreement on future tolls.

The developments could be new flashpoints with President Trump, who made threats in response to the ongoing talks, including a pledge to bomb Oman if that country "gets in the way."

Meanwhile, immediate effects on shipping levels in the strait are unlikely. The latest update from ship tracking service Kpler shows that transits "remain subdued," with just five crossings on Tuesday, all of them through Iran's preferred route.

Strait traffic has been less than a tenth of prewar levels for weeks, while Trump continues to tout the US blockade and his administration promises new economic sanctions to cut off Iran from the world.

In a note to clients, Signum Global Advisors reacted to the joint announcement, suggesting the progress between Iran and Oman could also put pressure on the US and Iran to make a deal by the fall. It could even get the US on board with joint Iran-Oman control of the strait, due to a variety of factors, including that "the US midterms make the Trump administration vulnerable to last-minute Iranian escalation against Gulf energy infrastructure."

Differing accounts of the talks — but clear progress

This week's round of talks between Iran and Oman saw the two sides offer somewhat different accounts, but with both touting progress.

Iran's military went the furthest, according to the Iranian state-run Sepah News agency, claiming that a revenue-sharing agreement has been reached. It was just the latest signal from Iran that it is determined to impose tolls on shippers despite US wishes.

"Agreements have been reached regarding each country's share of the strait's waters as well as Iran and Oman's share of its revenues," Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps spokesperson Hossein Mohebbi reportedly said.

Sayyid Badr bin Hamad Al Busaidi, Oman's foreign minister, offered his own summary of the talks, which didn't mention revenue sharing but cited a push for "practical arrangements to restore safe navigation".

The Omani official also underlined the unfinished nature of the talks.

"I am hopeful we will soon announce a temporary corridor for the Strait of Hormuz and practical arrangements to restore safe navigation," he said.

The joint statement signed off by both nations, replete with cordial photos of the meeting, discussed a phased-in approach with the two nations eventually taking charge of policing the strait on a permanent basis — in direct contradiction to Trump's often-expressed wishes.